RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Our Company We design, market and sell directly or through third parties and licensees products that include jeans, casual and dress pants, tops, shorts, skirts, jackets, footwear and related accessories for men, women and children around the world under our Levi’s Dockers Signature by Levi Strauss Co.™ (“Signature”) and Denizen brands. Our business is operated through three geographic regions: Americas, Europe and Asia. Our products are sold in approximately 50,000 retail locations in more than countries. We support our brands through a global infrastructure, developing, sourcing and marketing our products around the world. We distribute our Levi’s and Dockers products primarily through chain retailers and department stores in the United States and primarily through department stores, specialty retailers and approximately 2,200 franchised or other brand-dedicated stores and shop-in-shops outside of the United States. We also distribute our Levi’s and Dockers products through company-operated retail stores located in countries, including the United States, and through the ecommerce sites we operate. Our company-operated retail stores and ecommerce sites generated approximately 28% of our net revenues in as compared to 26% in the same period in with our ecommerce sites representing approximately 14% of this revenue in as compared to 13% in the same period in In addition, we distribute our Levi’s and Dockers products through ecommerce sites operated by certain of our key wholesale customers and other third parties. We distribute products under our Signature and Denizen brands primarily through mass channel retailers in the Americas. Our Europe and Asia businesses, collectively, contributed approximately 41% of our net revenues and 39% of our regional operating income in as compared to 39% of our net revenues and 37% of our regional operating income in Sales of Levi’s brand products represented approximately 85% of our total net sales in each of and Pants represented approximately 77% of our total units sold in as compared to 81% of our total units sold in and men's products generated approximately 76% of our total net sales as compared to 77% in Our Objectives Our key long-term objectives are to strengthen our brands globally in order to deliver sustainable profitable growth and generate strong cash flow. Critical strategies to achieve these objectives include driving our profitable core business; expanding the reach of our brands and building a more balanced product portfolio; elevating the performance of our retail channel, including ecommerce; and leveraging our global scale to improve our cost structure. For 2017, on a constant-currency basis, our financial objective is to grow full-year revenues, as compared to 2016, and maintain full-year gross margin at approximately 51%. Trends Affecting Our Business We believe the key business and marketplace factors that are impacting our business include the following: Factors that impact consumer discretionary spending, which remains mixed globally, have created a challenging retail environment for us and our customers, characterized by declining traffic patterns and contributing to a generally promotional environment. In developed economies, slow real wage growth and a shift in consumer spending to interest-rate sensitive durable goods and other non-apparel categories also continue to pressure global discretionary spending. Given consumers' increasing focus on value pricing amid the slowly recovering economy, the off-price retail channel remains strong, partially to the detriment of traditional broadline retailers, particularly at the mid-tier. More competitors are seeking growth globally, thereby raising the competitiveness across regions. Some of these competitors are entering into markets where we already have a mature business such as the United States, Mexico, Western Europe and Japan, and those new brands may provide consumers discretionary purchase alternatives or lower-priced apparel offerings. Wholesaler/retailer dynamics and wholesale channels remain challenged by slowed growth prospects due to increased competition from vertically-integrated specialty stores, fast-fashion retail, and ecommerce shopping, and pricing transparency enabled by proliferation of online technologies. As a result, many of our customers desire increased returns on their investment with us through increased margins and inventory turns, and they continue to build competitive exclusive or private-label offerings. Many apparel wholesalers, including us, seek to strengthen relationships with customers as a result of these changes in the marketplace through efforts such as investment in new products, marketing programs, fixtures and collaborative planning systems. Many apparel companies that have traditionally relied on wholesale distribution channels have invested in expanding their own retail store and ecommerce distribution and consumer-facing technologies, which has increased competition in the retail market. Competition for, and price volatility of, resources throughout the supply chain have increased, causing us and other apparel manufacturers to continue to seek alternative sourcing channels and create new efficiencies in our global supply chain. Trends affecting the supply chain include the proliferation of lower-cost sourcing alternatives, resulting in reduced barriers to entry for new competitors, and the impact of fluctuating prices of labor and raw materials. Trends such as these can bring additional pressure on us and other wholesalers and retailers to shorten lead-times, reduce costs and raise product prices. While currency values are in constant flux, we expect that the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar against various foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, British Pound, Yen and Mexican Peso, will continue to impact our financial results, affecting translation, revenue and operating margins, as well as traffic in stores located in or near major domestic tourist attractions. Recent sociopolitical events, including the results of the November 2016 U.S. election, and the Brexit decision, have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. Changes in tax policy or trade regulations, including import tariffs, could have material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These factors contribute to a global market environment of intense competition, constant product innovation and continuing cost pressure, and combine with the continuing global economic conditions to create a challenging commercial and economic environment. We evaluate these factors as we develop and execute our strategies. Our Results Our 2016 results reflect constant-currency net revenues growth and an increase in operating income. Net revenues. Compared to consolidated net revenues increased by on a reported basis and increased by on a constant-currency basis, driven by higher retail revenues from the expansion and improved performance of our retail network performance in all three regions, partially offset by a decline in wholesale revenues in the United States. Operating income Compared to consolidated operating income increased by and operating margin improved to 10% primarily reflecting lower restructuring and restructuring-related charges in 2016 and an improvement in our constant-currency gross margin, partially offset by increased investment in retail and the effects of currency. Cash flows. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $307 million for as compared to $218 million for the increase reflects higher trade receivable collections and lower payments associated with restructuring-related items and interest, offset by increased inventory levels. Financial Information Presentation Fiscal year Our fiscal year ends on the last Sunday of November in each year, although the fiscal years of certain foreign subsidiaries end on November 30. Fiscal 2016 and 2015 were 52-week years ending on and respectively. Fiscal 2014 was a 53-week year ending on Each quarter of fiscal years and consisted of 13 weeks, with the exception of the fourth quarter of 2014, which consisted of 14 weeks. Segments We manage our business according to three regional segments: the Americas, Europe and Asia. Effective as of the beginning of 2015, our regional licensing revenue, previously recorded centrally in our Americas region, was revised to be recorded in our respective regions. Regional licensing revenues are not significant to any of our regional segments individually in any of the periods presented herein, and accordingly, business segment information for the prior periods has not been revised. Certain of our global expenses, including global e-commerce infrastructure, global brand merchandising and global brand marketing costs, that support all of our regional segments, are included in our Americas region segment operating income. Classification Our classification of certain significant revenues and expenses reflects the following: Net revenues is primarily comprised of sales of products to wholesale customers, including franchised stores, and direct sales to consumers at our company-operated ecommerce sites and stores and at our company-operated shop-in-shops located within department stores. It includes discounts, allowances for estimated returns and incentives. Net revenues also include royalties earned from the use of our trademarks by third-party licensees in connection with the manufacturing, advertising and distribution of trademarked products. Cost of goods sold is primarily comprised of product costs, labor and related overhead, sourcing costs, inbound freight, internal transfers, and the cost of operating our remaining manufacturing facilities, including the related depreciation expense. Selling costs include, among other things, all occupancy costs and depreciation associated with our company-operated stores and commissions associated with our company-operated shop-in-shops, as well as costs associated with our ecommerce operations. We reflect substantially all distribution costs in SG&A, including costs related to receiving and inspection at distribution centers, warehousing, shipping to our customers, handling, and certain other activities associated with our distribution network. Gross margins may not be comparable to those of other companies in our industry since some companies may include costs related to their distribution network and occupancy costs associated with company-operated stores in cost of goods sold. Constant currency onstant-currency comparisons are based on translating local currency amounts in the prior-year period at actual foreign exchange rates for the current year. We routinely evaluate our financial performance on a constant-currency basis in order to facilitate period-to-period comparisons without regard to the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates. Results of Operations compared to The following table summarizes, for the periods indicated, our consolidated statements of income, the changes in these items from period to period and these items expressed as a percentage of net revenues: Year Ended November 27, November 29, Increase (Decrease) November 27, November 29, of Net Revenues of Net Revenues (Dollars in millions) Net revenues 4,552.7 4,494.5 1.3 100.0 100.0 Cost of goods sold 2,223.7 2,225.5 48.8 49.5 Gross profit 2,329.0 2,269.0 2.6 51.2 50.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,866.5 1,823.9 2.3 41.0 40.6 Restructuring, net 0.3 14.1 (97.8 0.3 Operating income 462.2 431.0 7.1 10.2 9.6 Interest expense (73.2 (81.2 Loss on early extinguishment of debt (14.0 (100.0 Other income (expense), net 18.2 (25.4 (171.7 0.4 Income before income taxes 407.2 310.4 31.2 8.9 6.9 Income tax expense 116.0 100.5 15.5 2.5 2.2 Net income 291.2 209.9 38.7 6.4 4.7 Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (65.5 Net income attributable to Levi Strauss Co. 291.0 209.4 39.0 6.4 4.7 Net revenues The following table presents net revenues by reporting segment for the periods indicated and the changes in net revenues by reporting segment on both reported and constant-currency bases from period to period: Year Ended Increase (Decrease) November 27, November 29, As Reported Constant Currency (Dollars in millions) Net revenues: Americas 2,682.9 2,726.5 Europe 1,091.4 1,016.4 7.4 10.0 Asia 778.4 751.6 3.6 6.1 Total net revenues 4,552.7 4,494.5 1.3 3.1 As compared to the same period in the prior year, total net revenues were affected unfavorably by changes in foreign currency exchange rates across all regions. Americas Net revenues in our Americas region decreased on reported basis and remained relatively flat on a constant-currency basis, with currency affecting net revenues unfavorably by approximately $35 million Excluding the effects of currency, the continued weak environment for apparel retailers in the United States resulted in a decline in the United States wholesale net revenues. This decline was mostly offset by wholesale growth in Mexico and the improved performance and expansion of our company-operated retail network in the region, including e-commerce. Europe Net revenues in Europe increased on both reported and constant-currency bases, with currency affecting net revenues unfavorably by approximately $24 million Net revenues increased from the expansion and performance of our company-operated retail network, including e-commerce. Asia Net revenues in Asia increased on both reported and constant-currency bases, with currency affecting net revenues unfavorably by approximately $18 million The increase in net revenues was primarily due to the expansion and improved performance of our company-operated retail network, particularly company-operated outlet and e-commerce channels. Higher traditional wholesale revenues were partially offset by a decline in the Mainland China franchise channel as a result of weakened performance and an increase in franchisee support. Gross profit The following table shows consolidated gross profit and gross margin for the periods indicated and the changes in these items from period to period: Year Ended November 27, November 29, Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Net revenues 4,552.7 4,494.5 1.3 Cost of goods sold 2,223.7 2,225.5 Gross profit 2,329.0 2,269.0 2.6 Gross margin 51.2 50.5 Currency translation unfavorably impacted gross profit by approximately $36 million Gross margin improved primarily due to lower negotiated product costs and streamlined supply chain operations as well as international retail growth, partially offset by the unfavorable transactional impact of currency. Selling, general and administrative expenses The following table shows our SG&A for the periods indicated, the changes in these items from period to period and these items expressed as a percentage of net revenues: Year Ended November 27, November 29, Increase (Decrease) November 27, November 29, of Net Revenues of Net Revenues (Dollars in millions) Selling 776.7 734.1 5.8 17.1 16.3 Advertising and promotion 284.0 276.4 2.8 6.2 6.1 Administration 351.9 364.4 7.7 8.1 Other 446.7 418.3 6.8 9.8 9.3 Restructuring-related charges 7.2 30.7 (76.6 0.2 0.7 Total SG&A 1,866.5 1,823.9 2.3 41.0 40.6 Currency affected SG&A favorably by approximately $26 million as compared to the prior year. The constant-currency increase in SG&A reflected our strategic investments in our growth initiatives: direct-to-consumer retail and advertising. Selling Currency impacted selling expenses favorably by approximately $16 million as compared to the prior year. Higher selling expenses primarily reflected costs associated with the expansion of our company-operated store network. We had more company-operated stores at the end of than we did at the end of Advertising and promotion Currency impacted advertising and promotion expense favorably by approximately $4 million as compared to the prior year. The slight increase as a percentage of net revenues reflected higher advertising investment as compared to the prior-year period, in line with our constant-currency revenue growth. Administration Currency impacted administration expenses favorably by approximately $3 million as compared to the prior year. As compared to 2015, administration expenses in 2016 reflect the recognition of approximately $7.0 million of benefit as a result of the resolution of a vendor dispute and the related reversal of liabilities recorded in a prior year. Lower organization costs, including salaries, benefits and long-term incentive compensation, also contributed to the decrease. Other Other SG&A includes distribution, information resources, and marketing organization costs. Currency impacted other SG&A expenses favorably by approximately $3 million as compared to the prior year. The increase in other SG&A primarily reflects higher information technology expenses and distribution costs. Additionally, we recorded a gain of $6.1 million in conjunction with the sale-leaseback of our distribution center in the United Kingdom in 2016 as compared to a $7.5 million gain recognized related to the sale of our finishing and distribution facility in Turkey in 2015. Restructuring-related charges Restructuring-related charges consist primarily of consulting fees incurred for our centrally-led cost-savings and productivity projects, as well as transition costs associated with our decision to outsource certain global business service activities. These related charges represent costs incurred associated with ongoing operations which will benefit future periods and thus were recorded in SG&A in our consolidated statements of income. Restructuring, net For the year ended we recognized restructuring charges, net, of $0.3 million as compared to $14.1 million for the same period in related to our global productivity actions, consisting primarily of severance benefits, consulting fees and noncash pension and postretirement curtailment gains or losses. Operating income The following table shows operating income by reporting segment and corporate expenses for the periods indicated, the changes in these items from period to period and these items expressed as a percentage of net revenues: Year Ended November 27, November 29, Increase (Decrease) November 27, November 29, of Net Revenues of Net Revenues (Dollars in millions) Operating income: Americas 482.2 523.7 18.0 19.2 Europe 197.1 184.4 6.9 18.1 18.1 Asia 105.1 121.6 (13.6 13.5 16.2 Total regional operating income 784.4 829.7 17.2 18.5 Corporate: Restructuring, net 0.3 14.1 (97.8 0.3 Restructuring-related charges 7.2 30.7 (76.6 0.2 0.7 Other corporate staff costs and expenses 314.7 353.9 (11.1 6.9 7.9 Corporate expenses 322.2 398.7 (19.2 7.1 8.9 Total operating income 462.2 431.0 7.2 10.2 9.6 Operating margin 10.2 9.6 ______________ Percentage of consolidated net revenues Currency translation unfavorably affected total operating income by approximately $10 million as compared to the prior year. Regional operating income Americas. Currency translation unfavorably affected operating income in the region by approximately $8 million as compared to the prior year. Lower constant-currency operating income and operating margin primarily reflected lower revenues and gross margin as well as increased investment in retail. Europe. Currency translation favorably affected operating income by approximately $1 million as compared to the prior year. Operating income increased primarily due to the region's higher net revenues, partially offset by increased investment in retail in the region and the unfavorable currency transaction impact of the British Pound. Operating margin remained consistent. Asia. Currency translation unfavorably affected operating income by approximately $5 million as compared to the prior year. Lower constant-currency operating income and operating margin primarily reflected lower gross margin for the region as well as increased investment in retail and advertising, partially offset by higher revenues in the region. Corporate Corporate expenses represent costs that are not attributed to any of our regional operating segments. Included in corporate expenses are restructuring charges, the consulting fees incurred for our centrally-led cost-savings and productivity projects and other corporate staff costs. Currency translation did not have a significant impact on corporate expenses. As compared to the prior year, other corporate staff costs and expenses decreased, primarily driven by lower restructuring and restructuring-related charges and a decrease in foreign currency transaction losses related to our global sourcing organization's procurement of inventory on behalf of our foreign subsidiaries, of which approximately $23 million of the decrease is related to our Europe region and $10 million related to our Asia region. Interest expense Interest expense was $73.2 million for the year ended as compared to $81.2 million in the prior year. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower average borrowing rates in 2016, resulting from our debt reduction and refinancing activities in 2015. The weighted-average interest rate on average borrowings outstanding for was 6.37% as compared to 6.72% for Loss on early extinguishment of debt For the year ended we recorded a loss of $14.0 million on early extinguishment of debt as a result of our debt refinancing activities during the year. The loss was comprised of redemption premiums of $7.5 million and the write-off of $3.5 million of unamortized debt issuance costs, and $3.0 million of other costs. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net, primarily consists of foreign exchange management activities and transactions. For the year ended we recorded net other income of $18.2 million as compared to net other expense of $25.4 million for the prior year. The income in primarily reflected net gains on foreign exchange derivatives partially offset by losses on our foreign currency denominated balances, which economically hedge future foreign currency cash flow obligations. The majority of the net expense in reflected net losses on our foreign currency denominated balances, partially offset by net gains on foreign exchange derivatives. Income tax expense Income tax expense was $116.1 million for the year ended compared to $100.5 million for the prior year. Our effective income tax rate was 28.5% for the year ended compared to 32.4% for the prior year. The decrease in the effective tax rate in as compared to is primarily due to a higher proportion of 2016 earnings in jurisdictions where we are subject to lower tax rates. For the year ended November 27, 2016, management asserted indefinite reinvestment on $100.0 million of undistributed foreign earnings, as management determined that this amount is required to meet ongoing working capital needs in certain foreign subsidiaries; no U.S. income taxes have been provided for such earnings. If the Company were to repatriate such foreign earnings to the United States, the deferred tax liability associated with such earnings would have been approximately $26.6 million. compared to The following table summarizes, for the periods indicated, our consolidated statements of income, the changes in these items from period to period and these items expressed as a percentage of net revenues: Year Ended November 29, November 30, Increase (Decrease) November 29, November 30, of Net Revenues of Net Revenues (Dollars in millions) Net revenues 4,494.5 4,754.0 100.0 100.0 Cost of goods sold 2,225.5 2,405.6 49.5 50.6 Gross profit 2,269.0 2,348.4 50.5 49.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,823.9 1,906.1 40.6 40.1 Restructuring, net 14.1 128.4 (89.0 0.3 2.7 Operating income 431.0 313.9 37.3 9.6 6.6 Interest expense (81.2 (117.6 (30.9 Loss on early extinguishment of debt (14.0 (20.3 (31.2 Other income (expense), net (25.4 (22.1 15.3 Income before income taxes 310.4 153.9 101.7 6.9 3.2 Income tax expense 100.5 49.6 102.9 2.2 1.0 Net income 209.9 104.3 101.2 4.7 2.2 Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 1.8 (125.7 Net income attributable to Levi Strauss Co. 209.4 106.1 97.4 4.7 2.2 Net revenues The following table presents net revenues by reporting segment for the periods indicated and the changes in net revenues by reporting segment on both reported and constant-currency bases from period to period: Year Ended Increase (Decrease) November 29, November 30, As Reported Constant Currency (Dollars in millions) Net revenues: Americas 2,726.5 2,862.9 Europe 1,016.4 1,143.3 (11.1 7.8 Asia 751.6 747.8 0.5 7.7 Total net revenues 4,494.5 4,754.0 1.2 As compared to the same period in the prior year, total net revenues were affected unfavorably by changes in foreign currency exchange rates across all regions. Americas Net revenues in our Americas region decreased on both reported and constant-currency bases, with currency affecting net revenues unfavorably by approximately $62 million. Net revenues decreased primarily due to the inclusion of an additional sales week in the prior year, since 2014 had 53 fiscal weeks compared to 52 weeks in 2015, as well as a decline at wholesale in sales of Dockers brand women's products due to our decision in the third quarter of 2014 to exit that business in the United States. Additionally, lower sales of both Levi's and Dockers brand men's products were offset by growth in Signature and Denizen brands and at retail in Canada and Mexico. Europe Net revenues in Europe decreased on a reported basis but increased on a constant-currency basis, with currency affecting net revenues unfavorably by approximately $200 million. Net revenues increased from the expansion and performance of our company-operated retail network, particularly in the U.K. and Russia markets. Asia Net revenues in Asia increased on both reported and constant-currency bases, with currency affecting net revenues unfavorably by approximately $50 million. The increase in net revenues was primarily due to the expansion of our company-operated retail network as well as increased promotional activity across channels, primarily in China and India. Gross profit The following table shows consolidated gross profit and gross margin for the periods indicated and the changes in these items from period to period: Year Ended November 29, November 30, Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Net revenues 4,494.5 4,754.0 Cost of goods sold 2,225.5 2,405.6 Gross profit 2,269.0 2,348.4 Gross margin 50.5 49.4 Currency translation unfavorably impacted gross profit by approximately $166 million. Gross margin improved primarily due to lower negotiated product costs and streamlined supply chain operations as well as price increases, partially offset by the unfavorable transactional impact of currency and product investment costs. Gross margin also benefited from our international retail growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses The following table shows our SG&A for the periods indicated, the changes in these items from period to period and these items expressed as a percentage of net revenues: Year Ended November 29, November 30, Increase (Decrease) November 29, November 30, of Net Revenues of Net Revenues (Dollars in millions) Selling 734.1 730.9 0.4 16.3 15.4 Advertising and promotion 276.4 272.8 1.3 6.1 5.7 Administration 364.4 377.7 8.1 7.9 Other 418.3 466.4 (10.3 9.3 9.8 Restructuring-related charges 30.7 27.6 11.3 0.7 0.6 Lump-sum pension settlement loss 30.7 (100.0 0.6 Total SG&A 1,823.9 1,906.1 40.6 40.1 Currency affected SG&A favorably by approximately $113 million as compared to the prior year. The constant-currency increase in SG&A reflected our strategic investments in our growth initiatives: direct-to-consumer retail and advertising. The constant-currency decline in our administrative and other costs reflected savings resulting from our global productivity initiative. Selling Currency impacted selling expenses favorably by approximately $62 million as compared to the prior year. Higher selling expenses primarily reflected costs associated with the expansion of our company-operated store network and investment in our ecommerce business. We had 91 more company-operated stores at the end of 2015 than we did at the end of 2014. Advertising and promotion Currency impacted advertising and promotion expense favorably by approximately $15 million as compared to the prior year. The increase as a percentage of net revenues reflected higher advertising spend as compared to the prior-year period, and in line with our constant-currency revenue growth. Administration Currency impacted administration expenses favorably by approximately $16 million as compared to the prior year. Other Other SG&A includes distribution, information resources, and marketing organization costs. Currency impacted other SG&A expenses favorably by approximately $20 million as compared to the prior year. Lower costs primarily reflected information resources and marketing organization savings resulting from our global productivity initiative. Lower costs also reflected a gain of $7.5 million in conjunction with the sale of our finishing and distribution facility in Turkey in the second quarter of 2015. Restructuring-related charges Restructuring-related charges consist primarily of consulting fees incurred for our centrally-led cost-savings and productivity projects, as well as transition costs associated with our decision to outsource certain global business service activities. These related charges represent costs incurred associated with ongoing operations which will benefit future periods and thus were recorded in SG&A in our consolidated statements of income. Lump-sum pension settlement loss Restructuring, net For the year ended November 29, 2015, we recognized restructuring charges, net, of $14.1 million, as compared to $128.4 million for the same period in 2014, related to the global productivity initiative, consisting primarily of severance benefits, consulting fees and noncash pension and postretirement curtailment gains or losses. Operating income The following table shows operating income by reporting segment and corporate expenses for the periods indicated, the changes in these items from period to period and these items expressed as a percentage of net revenues: Year Ended November 29, November 30, Increase (Decrease) November 29, November 30, of Net Revenues of Net Revenues (Dollars in millions) Operating income: Americas 523.7 531.1 19.2 18.6 Europe 184.4 181.0 1.8 18.1 15.8 Asia 121.6 108.5 12.1 16.2 14.5 Total regional operating income 829.7 820.6 1.1 18.5 17.3 Corporate: Restructuring, net 14.1 128.4 (89.0 0.3 2.7 Restructuring-related charges 30.7 27.6 11.3 0.7 0.6 Lump-sum pension settlement loss 30.7 (100.0 0.6 Other corporate staff costs and expenses 353.9 320.0 10.6 7.9 6.7 Corporate expenses 398.7 506.7 (21.3 8.9 10.7 Total operating income 431.0 313.9 37.3 9.6 6.6 Operating margin 9.6 6.6 ______________ Percentage of consolidated net revenues Currency translation unfavorably affected total operating income by approximately $41 million as compared to the prior year. Regional operating income Americas. Currency translation unfavorably affected operating income in the region by approximately $13 million as compared to the prior year. Higher constant-currency operating income and operating margin primarily reflected an improvement in the region's gross margin, partially offset by increased investment in retail and advertising and lower net revenues in the region. Europe. Currency translation unfavorably affected operating income by approximately $39 million as compared to the prior year. Operating income and operating margin increased primarily due to the region's higher net revenues, partially offset by increased investment in retail in the region. Asia. Currency translation unfavorably affected operating income by approximately $8 million as compared to the prior year. The improvement in operating income and operating margin primarily reflected an improvement in the region's gross margin as well as the region's higher revenues, partially offset by increased investment in retail and advertising in the region. Corporate Corporate expenses represent costs that are not attributed to any of our regional operating segments. Included in corporate expenses are restructuring charges, the consulting fees incurred for our centrally-led cost-savings and productivity projects, other corporate staff costs, and in 2014, the noncash pension settlement charge. Currency translation favorably affected corporate expenses by approximately $19 million. As compared to the prior year, other corporate staff costs and expenses increased primarily due to foreign currency transaction losses in 2015 related to our global sourcing organization's procurement of inventory on behalf of our foreign subsidiaries, of which approximately $25 million related to our Europe region and $6 million related to our Asia region; such amounts were immaterial in 2014. Interest expense Interest expense was $81.2 million for the year ended November 29, 2015, as compared to $117.6 million in the prior year. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower average borrowing rates in 2015, resulting from our debt reduction and refinancing activities in 2014 and 2015. The weighted-average interest rate on average borrowings outstanding for 2015 was 6.72%, as compared to 7.58% for 2014. Loss on early extinguishment of debt For the year ended November 29, 2015, we recorded a loss of $14.0 million on early extinguishment of debt as a result of our debt refinancing activities during 2015. The loss was comprised of tender and redemption premiums of $7.5 million, and the write-off of $3.5 million of unamortized debt issuance costs, and $3.0 million of other costs. For the year ended November 30, 2014, we recorded a loss of $20.3 million on early extinguishment of debt as a result of our debt refinancing activities during 2014. The loss was comprised of redemption premiums of $15.2 million and the write-off of $5.1 million of unamortized debt issuance costs. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net, primarily consists of foreign exchange management activities and transactions. For the year ended November 29, 2015, we recorded net expense of $25.4 million as compared to $22.1 million for the prior year. The net expense in 2015 reflected net losses on our foreign currency denominated balances, partially offset by net gains on foreign exchange derivatives. The expense in 2014 reflected losses on our foreign currency denominated balances as well as losses on foreign exchange derivatives. Income tax expense Income tax expense was $100.5 million for the year ended November 29, 2015, compared to $49.6 million for the prior year. Our effective income tax rate was 32.4% for the year ended November 29, 2015, compared to 32.2% for the prior year. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2015 was primarily due to a one-time, incremental annual tax benefit associated with multi-year California Enterprise Zone credits recognized in 2014, partially offset by a $8.0 million discrete tax benefit recognized in 2015 attributable to deductions taken for losses on the investment in a consolidated subsidiary. The effective tax rate in 2014 included a tax benefit that we recorded in 2014 as a result of reversing a deferred tax liability associated with the change in assertion during the period to indefinitely reinvest certain undistributed foreign earnings. For the year ended November 29, 2015, management asserted indefinite reinvestment on $100.0 million of undistributed foreign earnings, as management determined that this amount is required to meet ongoing working capital needs in certain foreign subsidiaries; no U.S. income taxes have been provided for such earnings. If the Company were to repatriate such foreign earnings to the United States, the deferred tax liability associated with such earnings would have been approximately $26.5 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity outlook We believe we will have adequate liquidity over the next twelve months to operate our business and to meet our cash requirements. Cash sources We are a privately-held corporation. We have historically relied primarily on cash flows from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of notes and other forms of debt financing. We regularly explore financing and debt reduction alternatives, including new credit agreements, unsecured and secured note issuances, equity financing, equipment and real estate financing, securitizations and asset sales. We are borrowers under a senior secured revolving credit facility. The facility is an asset-based facility, in which the borrowing availability is primarily based on the value of our U.S. Levi’s trademarks and the levels of accounts receivable and inventory in the United States and Canada. The maximum availability under the facility is $850 million, of which $800 million is available to us for revolving loans in U.S. Dollars and $50 million is available to us for revolving loans either in U.S. Dollars or Canadian Dollars. As of we did not have any borrowings under the credit facility. Unused availability under the facility was $784.3 million as our total availability of $838.0 million based on collateral levels as defined by the agreement, was reduced by $53.7 million of other credit-related instruments. As of we had cash and cash equivalents totaling approximately $375.6 million resulting in a total liquidity position (unused availability and cash and cash equivalents) of $1.2 billion Cash uses Our principal cash requirements include working capital, capital expenditures, payments of principal and interest on our debt, payments of taxes, contributions to our pension plans and payments for postretirement health benefit plans, settlement of shares issued under our 2016 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended to date ("EIP") and, if market conditions warrant, occasional investments in, or acquisitions of, business ventures in our line of business. In addition, we regularly evaluate our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock, all consistent with the terms of our debt agreements. The following table presents selected cash uses in and the related projected cash uses for these items in as of Cash Used in Projected Cash Uses in (Dollars in millions) Capital expenditures Interest Federal, foreign and state taxes (net of refunds) Pension plans Postretirement health benefit plans Dividend Total selected cash requirements ______________ Capital expenditures consist primarily of costs associated with information technology investments for ecommerce and investment in company-operated retail stores. The pension contribution amounts will be recalculated at the end of the plans' fiscal years, which for our U.S. pension plan is at the beginning of the Company's third fiscal quarter. Accordingly, actual contributions may differ materially from those presented here, based on factors such as changes in discount rates and the valuation of pension assets. Subsequent to the fiscal year end, on February 1, 2017, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $70.0 million payable in two $35 million installments. The Company expects to pay the first installment in the first quarter of 2017 and the second installment in the fourth quarter of 2017. The following table provides information about our significant cash contractual obligations and commitments as of Payments due or projected by period Total Thereafter (Dollars in millions) Contractual and Long-term Liabilities: Short-term and long-term debt obligations 1,058 1,019 Interest Capital lease obligations Operating leases Purchase obligations Postretirement obligations Pension obligations Long-term employee related benefits Total 3,606 1,630 ______________ Interest obligations are computed using constant interest rates until maturity. Amounts reflect contractual obligations relating to our existing leased facilities as of and therefore do not reflect our planned future openings of company-operated retail stores. For more information, see “Item Properties.” Amounts reflect estimated commitments of $468 million for inventory purchases, $203 million for sponsorship, naming rights and related benefits with respect to the Levi's Stadium, $220 million for human resources, advertising, information technology and other professional services. The amounts presented in the table represent an estimate for the next ten years of our projected payments, based on information provided by our plans' actuaries, and have not been reduced by estimated Medicare subsidy receipts, the amounts of which are not material. Our policy is to fund postretirement benefits as claims and premiums are paid. For more information, see Note to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report. The amounts presented in the table represent an estimate of our projected contributions to the plans for the next ten years based on information provided by our plans' actuaries. For U.S. qualified plans, these estimates can exceed the projected annual minimum required contributions in an effort to level out potential future funding requirements and provide annual funding flexibility. The contribution amounts will be recalculated at the end of the plans' fiscal years, which for our U.S. pension plan is at the beginning of the Company's third fiscal quarter. Accordingly, actual contributions may differ materially from those presented here, based on factors such as changes in discount rates and the valuation of pension assets. For more information, see Note to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report. Long-term employee-related benefits primarily relate to the current and non-current portion of deferred compensation arrangements and workers' compensation. We estimated these payments based on prior experience and forecasted activity for these items. For more information, see Note to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report. This table does not include amounts related to our uncertain tax positions of $29.1 million We do not anticipate a material effect on our liquidity as a result of payments in future periods of liabilities for uncertain tax positions. The table also does not include amounts related to potential cash settlement of stock appreciation rights ("SARs") put to the Company under the terms of our EIP. Based on the fair value of the Company's stock and the number of shares outstanding as of future payments under the terms of the EIP could range up to approximately $70 million which could become payable in 2017. These payments are contingent on the Company's liquidity and the Board's discretion. Information in the two preceding tables reflects our estimates of future cash payments. These estimates and projections are based upon assumptions that are inherently subject to significant economic, competitive, legislative and other uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our actual expenditures and liabilities may be materially higher or lower than the estimates and projections reflected in these tables. The inclusion of these projections and estimates should not be regarded as a representation by us that the estimates will prove to be correct. Cash flows The following table summarizes, for the periods indicated, selected items in our consolidated statements of cash flows: Year Ended November 27, November 29, November 30, (Dollars in millions) Cash provided by operating activities 306.6 218.3 232.9 Cash used for investing activities (68.3 (80.8 (71.8 Cash used for financing activities (173.5 (94.9 (341.7 Cash and cash equivalents 375.6 318.6 298.3 as compared to Cash flows from operating activities Cash provided by operating activities was $306.6 million for as compared to $218.3 million for Cash provided by operating activities increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher trade receivables collections and lower payments associated with restructuring-related items and interest, reflective of the increase in our operating income, offset by our higher inventory levels which are primarily driven by lower than anticipated demand in the U.S. Cash flows from investing activities Cash used for investing activities was $68.3 million for as compared to $80.8 million for The decrease in cash used for investing activities as compared to the prior year was primarily driven by proceeds from the settlement of our forward exchange contracts and cash received from the sale-leaseback of our distribution center in the United Kingdom, partially offset by investment in information technology systems and distribution. Cash flows from financing activities Cash used for financing activities was $173.5 million for as compared to $94.9 million for Cash used in 2016 primarily reflected net repayments on our senior revolving credit facility, the payment of a $60 million cash dividend in the second quarter of 2016 and the $36 million settlement of our Yen-denominated Eurobonds. Cash used in 2015 primarily reflected the payment of a $50 million cash dividend as well as our refinancing activities and debt reduction during the period. as compared to Cash flows from operating activities Cash provided by operating activities was $218.3 million for as compared to $232.9 million for Cash provided by operating activities decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher payments to vendors and higher pension payments, partially offset by an increase in cash received from customers, reflecting our higher beginning accounts receivable balance, lower cash used for inventory purchases, and lower interest payments. Cash flows from investing activities Cash used for investing activities was $80.8 million for as compared to $71.8 million for The increase in cash used for investing activities as compared to the prior year primarily reflects increased investment in information technology projects and retail expansion. Cash flows from financing activities Cash used for financing activities was $94.9 million for as compared to cash provided of $341.7 million for Cash used in both periods primarily related to our refinancing activities and debt reduction in each year. Indebtedness The borrower of substantially all of our debt is Levi Strauss Co., the parent and a U.S. operating company. Of our total debt of $1.05 billion as of we had fixed-rate debt of $1.02 billion 97.4% of total debt) and variable-rate debt of $27.4 million of total debt). As of our required aggregate debt principal payments on our unsecured long-term debt were $1.02 billion in years after 2021. Short-term borrowings of $38.9 million at various foreign subsidiaries were expected to be either paid over the next twelve months or refinanced at the end of their applicable terms. Our long-term debt agreements contain customary covenants restricting our activities as well as those of our subsidiaries. As of we were in compliance with all of these covenants. Effects of Inflation We believe that inflation in the regions where most of our sales occur has not had a significant effect on our net revenues or profitability. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Guarantees and Other Contingent Obligations Off-balance sheet arrangements and other We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases; for more information, see Note to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report. We participate in a multiemployer pension plan; however, our exposure to risks arising from participation in the plan and the extent to which we can be liable to the plan for other participating employers' obligations are not material. We have no other material non-cancelable guarantees or commitments, and no material special-purpose entities or other off-balance sheet debt obligations. Indemnification agreements In the ordinary course of our business, the Company enters into agreements containing indemnification provisions under which the Company agrees to indemnify the other party for specified claims and losses. For example, the Company's trademark license agreements, real estate leases, consulting agreements, logistics outsourcing agreements, securities purchase agreements and credit agreements typically contain such provisions. This type of indemnification provision obligates the Company to pay certain amounts associated with claims brought against the other party as the result of trademark infringement, negligence or willful misconduct of Company employees, breach of contract by the Company including inaccuracy of representations and warranties, specified lawsuits in which the Company and the other party are co-defendants, product claims and other matters. These amounts generally are not readily quantifiable; the maximum possible liability or amount of potential payments that could arise out of an indemnification claim depends entirely on the specific facts and circumstances associated with the claim. The Company has insurance coverage that minimizes the potential exposure to certain of such claims. The Company also believes that the likelihood of material payment obligations under these agreements to third parties is remote. Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We believe that the following discussion addresses our critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management's most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Changes in such estimates, based on newly available information, or different assumptions or conditions, may affect amounts reported in future periods. We summarize our critical accounting policies below. Revenue recognition Net sales is primarily comprised of sales of products to wholesale customers, including franchised stores, and direct sales to consumers at our company-operated and online stores and at our company-operated shop-in-shops located within department stores. We recognize revenue on sale of product when the goods are shipped or delivered and title to the goods passes to the customer provided that: there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; the sales price is fixed or determinable; and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue is recorded net of an allowance for estimated returns, discounts and retailer promotions and other similar incentives. Licensing revenues from the use of our trademarks in connection with the manufacturing, advertising, and distribution of trademarked products by third-party licensees are earned and recognized as products are sold by licensees based on royalty rates as set forth in the licensing agreements. We recognize allowances for estimated returns in the period in which the related sale is recorded. We recognize allowances for estimated discounts, retailer promotions and other similar incentives at the later of the period in which the related sale is recorded or the period in which the sales incentive is offered to the customer. We estimate non-volume based allowances based on historical rates as well as customer and product-specific circumstances. Actual allowances may differ from estimates due to changes in sales volume based on retailer or consumer demand and changes in customer and product-specific circumstances. Sales and value-added taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. Inventory valuation We value inventories at the lower of cost or market value. Inventory cost is generally determined using the first-in first-out method. We include product costs, labor and related overhead, sourcing costs, inbound freight, internal transfers, and the cost of operating our remaining manufacturing facilities, including the related depreciation expense, in the cost of inventories. We estimate quantities of slow-moving and obsolete inventory by reviewing on-hand quantities, outstanding purchase obligations and forecasted sales. In determining inventory market values, substantial consideration is given to the expected product selling price. We estimate expected selling prices based on our historical recovery rates for sale of slow-moving and obsolete inventory and other factors, such as market conditions, expected channel of disposition, and current consumer preferences. Estimates may differ from actual results due to changes in resale or market value, avenues of disposition, consumer and retailer preferences and economic conditions. Impairment We review our goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently as warranted by events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We qualitatively assess goodwill impairment and non-amortized intangible assets to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or other non-amortized intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. During fiscal 2016, the Company performed this analysis examining key events and circumstances affecting fair value and determined it is more likely than not that the reporting unit's fair value is greater than it carrying amount. As such, no further analysis was required. If goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets are not qualitatively assessed and it is determined that it is not more likely than not that the reporting unit's fair value is greater than its carrying amount, a two-step quantitative approach is utilized. In the first step, we compare the carrying value of the reporting unit or applicable asset to its fair value, which we estimate using a discounted cash flow analysis or by comparison to the market values of similar assets. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit or asset exceeds its estimated fair value, we perform the second step, and determine the impairment loss, if any, as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset over its fair value. The assumptions used in such valuations are subject to volatility and may differ from actual results; however, based on the carrying value of our goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets as of relative to their estimated fair values, we do not anticipate any material impairment charges in the near-term. We review our other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an other long-lived asset exceeds the expected future undiscounted cash flows, we measure and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value of the asset over its fair value. To determine the fair value of impaired assets, we utilize the valuation technique or techniques deemed most appropriate based on the nature of the impaired asset and the data available, which may include the use of quoted market prices, prices for similar assets or other valuation techniques such as discounted future cash flows or earnings. Income tax assets and liabilities The future effective tax rate will ultimately depend on the mix of earnings between domestic and foreign operations, the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States, changes in tax laws and regulations and potential resolutions on tax examinations, refund claims and litigation. Remittances of foreign earnings to the United States are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of our foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the United States and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates as to how much of our foreign earnings will be distributed to the United States or tax legislation that limits or restricts the amount of undistributed foreign earnings that we consider indefinitely reinvested outside the United States could materially impact our income tax provision and effective tax rate. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise from examinations in various jurisdictions and assumptions and estimates used in evaluating the need for valuation allowance. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We compute our provision for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. Significant judgments are required in order to determine the realizability of these deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we evaluate all significant available positive and negative evidence, including historical operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the existence of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Changes in the expectations regarding the realization of deferred tax assets could materially impact income tax expense in future periods. We continuously review issues raised in connection with all ongoing examinations and open tax years to evaluate the adequacy of our tax liabilities. We evaluate uncertain tax positions under a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the uncertain tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination based on its technical merits. The second step is, for those positions that meet the recognition criteria, to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than fifty percent likely of being realized. We believe our recorded tax liabilities are adequate to cover all open tax years based on our assessment. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and involves significant judgments about future events. To the extent that our view as to the outcome of these matters changes, we will adjust income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. We classify interest and penalties related to income taxes as income tax expense. Employee benefits and incentive compensation Pension and postretirement benefits. We have several non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans covering eligible employees. We also provide certain health care benefits for U.S. employees who meet age, participation and length of service requirements at retirement. In addition, we sponsor other retirement or post-employment plans for our foreign employees in accordance with local government programs and requirements. We retain the right to amend, curtail or discontinue any aspect of the plans, subject to local regulations. Any of these actions, either individually or in combination, could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and on our future financial performance. We recognize either an asset or liability for any plan's funded status in our consolidated balance sheets. We measure changes in funded status using actuarial models which utilize an attribution approach that generally spreads individual events either over the estimated service lives of the remaining employees in the plan, or, for plans where participants will not earn additional benefits by rendering future service, over the plan participants' estimated remaining lives. The attribution approach assumes that employees render service over their service lives on a relatively smooth basis and as such, presumes that the income statement effects of pension or postretirement benefit plans should follow the same pattern. Our policy is to fund our pension plans based upon actuarial recommendations and in accordance with applicable laws, income tax regulations and credit agreements. Net pension and postretirement benefit income or expense is generally determined using assumptions which include expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, compensation rate increases and medical trend and mortality rates. We use a mix of actual historical rates, expected rates and external data to determine the assumptions used in the actuarial models. For example, we utilized a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with various maturities to determine the appropriate discount rate to use for our U.S. benefit plans. Under this model, each year's expected future benefit payments are discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate, thereby generating the overall discount rate. We utilized country-specific third-party bond indices to determine appropriate discount rates to use for benefit plans of our foreign subsidiaries. Changes in actuarial assumptions and estimates, either individually or in combination, could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and on our future financial performance. For example, as of a basis point change in the discount rate would yield an approximately three percent change in the projected benefit obligation and an approximately two percent change in the annual service cost of our pension plans, and an approximately two percent change in the projected benefit obligation and an approximately three percent change in the annual service cost of our postretirement benefit plan. Employee incentive compensation. We maintain short-term and long-term employee incentive compensation plans. For our short-term plans, the amount of the cash bonus earned depends upon business unit and corporate financial results as measured against pre-established targets, and also depends upon the performance and job level of the individual. Our long-term plans are intended to reward certain levels of management for its long-term impact on our total earnings performance. Performance is measured at the end of a three-year period based on our performance over the period measured against certain pre-established targets such as the compound annual growth rates over the periods for net revenues and average margin of net earnings adjusted for certain items such as interest and taxes. We accrue the related compensation expense over the period of the plan, and changes in our projected future financial performance could have a material impact on our accruals. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report for recently issued accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and expected impact to our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain matters discussed in this report, including (without limitation) statements under “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contain forward-looking statements. Although we believe that, in making any such statements, our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statement may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. These forward-looking statements include statements relating to our anticipated financial performance and business prospects, including constant-currency revenue and gross margin expectations, and/or statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believe”, “will”, “so we can”, “when”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”, “expect”, “project”, “could”, “plans”, “seeks” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date stated and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements will not be realized. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations may not prove to be correct or we may not achieve the financial results, savings or other benefits anticipated in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our senior management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which may be beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements and include, without limitation: changes in general economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on the level of discretionary consumer spending for apparel and pricing trend fluctuations, and our ability to plan for and respond to the impact of those changes; our ability to timely and effectively implement global productivity actions as planned, which are intended to increase productivity and efficiency in our global operations, take advantage of lower-cost service-delivery models in our distribution network and streamline our procurement practices to maximize efficiency in our global operations, without business disruption or mitigation to such disruptions; consequences of impacts to the businesses of our wholesale customers, including significant store closures or a significant decline in a wholesale customer's financial condition leading to restructuring actions, bankruptcies, liquidations or other unfavorable events for our wholesale customers, caused by factors such as inability to secure financing, decreased discretionary consumer spending, inconsistent traffic patterns and an increase in promotional activity as a result of decreased traffic, pricing fluctuations, general economic and financial conditions and changing consumer preferences; our and our wholesale customers' decisions to modify strategies and adjust product mix and pricing, and our ability to manage any resulting product transition costs, including liquidating inventory or increasing promotional activity; our ability to purchase products through our independent contract manufacturers that are made with quality raw materials and our ability to mitigate the variability of costs related to manufacturing, sourcing, and raw materials supply and to manage consumer response to such mitigating actions; our ability to gauge and adapt to changing U.S. and international retail environments and fashion trends and changing consumer preferences in product, price-points, as well as in-store and digital shopping experiences; our ability to respond to price, innovation and other competitive pressures in the global apparel industry, on and from our key customers and in our key markets; our ability to increase the number of dedicated stores for our products, including through opening and profitably operating company-operated stores; consequences of foreign currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations; our ability to successfully prevent or mitigate the impacts of data security breaches; our ability to attract and retain key executives and other key employees; our ability to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property; the impact of the variables that affect the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of our postretirement benefits and pension plans; our dependence on key distribution channels, customers and suppliers; our ability to utilize our tax credits and net operating loss carryforwards; ongoing or future litigation matters and disputes and regulatory developments; changes in or application of trade and tax laws, including potential increases in import tariffs; and political, social and economic instability, or natural disasters, in countries where we or our customers do business. Our actual results might differ materially from historical performance or current expectations. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.