Risks Relating to our Industry Our revenues are influenced by economic conditions that impact consumer spending. Apparel is a cyclical industry that is dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. Our wholesale customers anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories, canceling orders or increasing promotional activity. Our brand-dedicated stores are also affected by these conditions which may lead to a decline in consumer traffic and spending in these stores. As a result, factors that diminish consumer spending and confidence in any of the markets in which we compete, particularly deterioration in general economic conditions, the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on tourism and tourist spending, volatility in investment returns, fear of unemployment, increases in energy costs or interest rates, housing market downturns, fear about and impact of pandemic illness, and other factors such as acts of war, natural disasters or terrorist or political events that impact consumer confidence, could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and financial condition through their impact on our wholesale customers as well as their direct impact on us. These outcomes and behaviors have in the past, and may continue to, adversely affect our business and financial condition. Intense competition in the global apparel industry could lead to reduced sales and prices. We face a variety of competitive challenges in the global apparel industry from a variety of jeanswear and casual apparel companies, and competition has increased over the years due to factors such as the international expansion and increased presence of vertically integrated specialty stores; expansion into ecommerce by existing and new competitors; the proliferation of private labels and exclusive brands offered by department stores, chain stores and mass channel retailers; the introduction of jeans and casual apparel by well-known and successful athletic wear companies; and the movement of apparel companies who traditionally relied on wholesale distribution channels into their own retail distribution network. Some of these competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and may be able to adapt to changes in consumer preferences or retail requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the building and sustaining of their brand equity and the marketing and sale of their products both in stores and online. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to achieve lower product costs or adopt more aggressive pricing and discounting policies than we can. As a result, we may not be able to compete as effectively with them and may not be able to maintain or grow the demand for our products. These evolving competitive factors could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The success of our business depends upon our ability to offer on-trend and updated products at attractive price points. The global apparel industry is characterized by ever-changing fashion trends and consumer preferences and by the rapid replication of new products by competitors. As a result, our success depends in large part on our ability to develop, market and deliver innovative and stylish products at a pace, intensity, and price competitive with other brands in the markets in which we sell our products. In addition, we must create products at a range of price points that appeal to the consumers of both our wholesale customers and our dedicated retail stores situated in each of our diverse geographic regions. Our development and production cycles take place prior to full visibility into all of these factors for the coming seasons. Failure on our part to forecast consumer demand and market conditions and to regularly and rapidly develop innovative and stylish products and update core products could limit sales growth, adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products, and negatively impact the consumer traffic in our dedicated retail stores. In addition, if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels. Inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and could adversely affect our gross margins. Moreover, our newer products may not produce as high a gross margin as our traditional products and thus may have an adverse effect on our overall margins and profitability. The global apparel industry is subject to intense pricing pressure. The apparel market is characterized by low barriers to entry for both suppliers and marketers, global sourcing through suppliers located throughout the world, trade liberalization, continuing movement of product sourcing to lower cost countries, regular promotional activity, and the ongoing emergence of new competitors with widely varying strategies and resources. These factors have contributed, and may continue to contribute, to intense pricing pressure and uncertainty throughout the supply chain. Pricing pressure has been exacerbated by the variability of raw materials in recent years. This pressure could have the following effects: result in reduced gross margins across our product lines; increase retailer demands for allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support; and increase pressure on us to reduce our production costs and our operating expenses. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Increases in the price of raw materials could increase our cost of goods and negatively impact our financial results. The principal fabrics used in our products include cotton, blends, synthetics and wools. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, acreage devoted to cotton crops and crop yields, weather, supply conditions, transportation costs, energy prices, work stoppages, government regulation and government policy, economic climates, market speculation and other unpredictable factors. Any and all of these factors may be exacerbated by global climate change. Cotton prices suffered from unprecedented variability and uncertainty in prior years and may fluctuate significantly again in the future. Increases in raw material costs, unless sufficiently offset by our pricing actions, may cause a decrease in our profitability and negatively impact our sales volume. These factors may also have an adverse impact on our cash and working capital needs as well as those of our suppliers. Our business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. We import both raw materials and finished garments into all of our operating regions. Our ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes and work stoppages, political unrest, severe weather, or security requirements in the United States and other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require us to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to our customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transportation costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition, specifically our gross margin and overall profitability. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to customs and tax requirements as well as trade regulations, such as tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements or bilateral actions. In addition, the countries in which our products are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on our imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or our suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm our business. In this regard, the results of the November 2016 U.S. election and the Brexit vote have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. Changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations that impose requirements that could adversely affect our business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into our key markets such as the United States or the European Union. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on a group of key wholesale customers for a significant portion of our revenues. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's performance or financial position could harm our business and financial condition. Sales to our top ten wholesale customers accounted for approximately 30% of our total net revenues in fiscal year 2016 and 31% of net revenues in both fiscal years and No customer represented 10% or more of net revenues in any of these years. While we have long-standing relationships with our wholesale customers, we do not have long-term contracts with them. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated by either party at any time. If any major wholesale customer decreases or ceases its purchases from us, cancels its orders, reduces the floor space, assortments, fixtures or advertising for our products or changes its manner of doing business with us for any reason, such actions could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, a decline in the performance or financial condition of a major wholesale customer including bankruptcy or liquidation could result in a material loss of revenues to us and cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to our receivables from that customer or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that customer, all of which could adversely affect our own business and financial condition. The retail industry in the United States has experienced substantial consolidation over the last decade, and further consolidation may occur. Consolidation in the retail industry typically results in store closures, centralized purchasing decisions, and increased emphasis by retailers on inventory management and productivity. In addition, we and other suppliers may experience increased customer leverage over us and greater exposure to credit risk as a result of industry consolidation. Any of the foregoing results can impact, and have adversely impacted in the past, our net revenues, margins and ability to operate efficiently. We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations and uncertainty with respect to our ability to achieve the estimated cost savings. We continuously assess opportunities to streamline operations and fuel long-term profitable growth. Future charges related to such actions may harm our profitability in the periods incurred. Implementation of global productivity actions presents a number of significant risks, including: actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service levels to wholesale customers and retail consumers; potential adverse effects on our internal control environment and inability to preserve adequate internal controls relating to our general and administrative functions in connection with the decision to outsource certain business service activities; actual or perceived disruption to suppliers, distribution networks and other important operational relationships and the inability to resolve potential conflicts in a timely manner; diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities and strategic objectives; and failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees. Because of these and other factors, such as the implementation delays we have experienced with our outsourcing of certain global business service activities, we cannot predict whether we will fully realize the purpose and anticipated operational benefits or cost savings of our global productivity actions and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we experience adverse changes to our business, additional restructuring or reorganization activities may be required in the future. We may be unable to maintain or increase our sales through our primary distribution channels. In the United States, chain stores and department stores are the primary distribution channels for our Levi's and Dockers products. Outside the United States, department stores, franchised stores, and independent jeanswear retailers have traditionally been our primary distribution channels. We may be unable to maintain or increase sales of our products through these distribution channels for several reasons, including the following: the retailers in these channels maintain and seek to grow substantial private-label and exclusive offerings as they strive to differentiate the brands and products they offer from those of their competitors; these retailers may also change their apparel strategies in a way that shifts focus away from our typical consumer or that otherwise results in a reduction of sales of our products generally, a reduction of fixture spaces or purchases of brands misaligned with their strategic requirements; other channels, including vertically integrated specialty stores and ecommerce sites, account for a substantial portion of jeanswear and casual wear sales. In some of our mature markets, these stores have placed competitive pressure on our primary distribution channels, and many of these stores are now looking to our developing markets to grow their business; or shrinking points of distribution, including fewer doors at our customer locations, or bankruptcy or financial difficulties of a customer. Further success by retailer private-labels and vertically integrated specialty stores may continue to adversely affect the sales of our products across all channels, as well as the profitability of our brand-dedicated stores. Additionally, our ability to secure or maintain retail floor space, market share and sales in these channels depends on our ability to offer differentiated products and to increase retailer profitability on our products, which could have an adverse impact on our margins. We are a global company with significant revenues and earnings generated internationally, which exposes us to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, as well as political and economic risks. A significant portion of our revenues and earnings are generated internationally. In addition, a substantial amount of our products come from sources outside of the country of distribution. As a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States, including: currency fluctuations, which have impacted our results of operations significantly in recent years; political, economic and social instability; changes in tariffs and taxes; regulatory restrictions on repatriating foreign funds back to the United States; and less protective foreign laws relating to intellectual property. The functional currency for most of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the results of our operations and the value of our foreign assets and liabilities, including debt, which in turn may adversely affect results of operations and cash flows and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. For example, the June 2016 decision by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union (“Brexit”) has resulted in increased uncertainty in the economic and political environment in Europe and has caused increased fluctuations and unpredictability in currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the United States and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. Given the unpredictability and volatility of foreign currency exchange rates, ongoing or unusual volatility may adversely impact our business and financial conditions. Furthermore, due to our global operations, we are subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations affecting our business, such as those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, antitrust and competition, environmental protection, consumer protection, import/export, and anti-corruption, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which prohibits giving anything of value intended to influence the awarding of government contracts. Although we have put into place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these requirements. Violations of these regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a global company, we are exposed to risks of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and risks relating to U.S. policy with respect to companies doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Legislation or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase our U.S. income tax liability and adversely affect our after-tax profitability. For example, U.S. lawmakers are considering several U.S. corporate tax reform proposals, including, among others, proposals which could reduce or eliminate U.S. income tax deferrals on unrepatriated foreign earnings and eliminate tax incentives in exchange for a lower U.S. statutory tax rate. In addition, the results of the November 2016 U.S. election have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. Changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we encounter problems with distribution, our ability to deliver our products to market could be adversely affected. We rely on company-owned and third-party distribution facilities to warehouse and ship products to our wholesale customers, retail stores and ecommerce consumers. As part of the pursuit for improved organizational agility and marketplace responsiveness, we have consolidated the number of distribution facilities we rely upon and continue to look for opportunities for further consolidation in certain regions. Such consolidation may make our operations more vulnerable to interruptions in the event of work stoppages, labor disputes, earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting our company-owned and third-party distribution centers. In addition, distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of products to and from their distribution facilities. Moreover, our distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. If we encounter problems with our distribution system whether company-owned or third-party, our ability to meet wholesale customer and ecommerce consumer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be adversely affected. Our efforts to expand our retail business may not be successful, which could impact our operating results. One of our key strategic priorities is to become a world-class omni-channel retailer by expanding our consumer reach in brand-dedicated stores globally, including making selective investments in company-operated stores, dedicated ecommerce sites, franchisee and other dedicated store models. In many locations, we face major, established retail competitors who may be able to better attract customers and execute their retail strategies. In addition, a retail operating model involves substantial investments in equipment and property, information systems, inventory and personnel. Due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with these investments, a significant expansion in company-operated stores, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of stores could result in significant costs and impacts to our margins. Our ability to grow our retail channel also depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, demographics, and other factors. Failure to identify and secure adequate new locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of the fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to effectively execute our ecommerce business our reputation and operating results may be harmed. While still comprising a small portion of our net revenues, ecommerce has been our fastest growing business over the last several years. The success of our ecommerce business depends, in part, on third parties and factors over which we have limited control, including changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to ecommerce usage, both domestically and abroad, as well as promotional or other advertising initiatives employed by our wholesale customers or other third parties on their ecommerce sites. We are also vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with our ecommerce sites, including: changes in required technology interfaces; website downtime and other technical failures; costs and technical issues from website software upgrades; computer viruses; and changes in applicable federal and state regulations. In addition, we must keep up to date with competitive technology trends, including the use of new or improved technology, creative user interfaces and other ecommerce marketing tools such as paid search and mobile applications, among others, which may increase our costs and which may not succeed in increasing sales or attracting consumers. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales in our ecommerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. Additionally, the success of our ecommerce business and the satisfaction of our consumers depend on their timely receipt of our products. The efficient flow of our products requires that our company-operated and third-party operated distribution facilities have adequate capacity to support the current level of ecommerce operations and any anticipated increased levels that may follow from the growth of our ecommerce business. If we encounter difficulties with our distribution facilities or in our relationships with the third parties who operate the facilities, or if any facilities were to shut down for any reason, including as a result of fire or other natural disaster, we could face shortages of inventory, resulting in "out of stock" conditions in the ecommerce sites we operate and those operated by our wholesale customers or other third parties, and we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our consumers and experience dissatisfaction from our consumers. Any of these issues could have a material adverse effect on our business and harm our reputation. Any major disruption or failure of our information technology systems could adversely affect our business and operations. We rely on various information technology systems, owned by us and third parties, to manage our operations. Over the last several years, we have been and continue to implement modifications and upgrades to our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality and acquiring new systems with new functionality. These types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. In addition, the difficulties with implementing new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. As we outsource functions, we become more dependent on the entities performing those functions. Disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations. As part of our long-term profitable growth strategy, we are continually looking for opportunities to provide essential business services in a more cost-effective manner. In some cases, this requires the outsourcing of functions or parts of functions that can be performed more effectively by external service providers. In 2014, we entered into an agreement with Wipro Limited to outsource certain information technology operations, and certain finance, human resource, consumer relations and customer service functions. While we believe we conduct appropriate diligence before entering into agreements with the outsourcing entity, the failure of one or more entities to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, provide them on a timely basis or to provide them at the prices we expect may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we could face increased costs associated with finding replacement vendors or hiring new employees in order to return these services in-house. We may outsource other functions in the future, which would increase our reliance on third parties. We face cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. We utilize systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. As evidenced by companies who have recently suffered serious security breaches, we may be vulnerable to, and unable to anticipate or detect data security breaches and data loss, including rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of a breach by us or our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. In addition to our own databases, we use third-party service providers to store, process and transmit confidential or sensitive information on our behalf. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and use reasonable security measures, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in the future either at their location or within their systems. A security breach may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, and could result in significant costs to us, which may include, among others, potential liabilities to payment card networks for reimbursement of credit card fraud and card reissuance costs, including fines and penalties, potential liabilities from governmental or third-party investigations, proceedings or litigation and diversion of management attention. We could also experience delays or interruptions in our ability to function in the normal course of business, including delays in the fulfillment or cancellation of customer orders or disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of products. In addition, actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. Compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. We currently rely on contract manufacturing of our products. Our inability to secure production sources meeting our quality, cost, working conditions and other requirements, or failures by our contractors to perform, could harm our sales, service levels and reputation. We source approximately 95% of our products from independent contract manufacturers who purchase fabric and make our products and may also provide us with design and development services. As a result, we must locate and secure production capacity. We depend on independent manufacturers to maintain adequate financial resources, including access to sufficient credit, secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, and maintain sufficient development and manufacturing capacity in an environment characterized by continuing cost pressure and demands for product innovation and speed-to-market. In addition, we currently do not have any material long-term contracts with any of our independent manufacturers. Under our current arrangements with our independent manufacturers, these manufacturers generally may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. Finally, while we have historically worked with numerous manufacturers, in the past several years we have begun consolidating the number of independent manufacturers from which we source our products. Reliance on a fewer number of independent manufacturers involves risk and any difficulties or failures to perform by our independent contract manufacturers could cause delays in product shipments or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. Our dependence on contract manufacturing could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. For example, a contractor's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards, or interference with our ability to receive shipments due to factors such as port or transportation conditions, could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. Failing to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, impose non-compliance charges, demand reduced prices, or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales and margins. We require contract manufacturers to meet our standards in terms of working conditions, environmental protection, raw materials, facility safety, security and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As such, we may not be able to obtain the lowest-cost production. In addition, the labor and business practices of apparel manufacturers have received increased attention from the media, non-governmental organizations, consumers and governmental agencies in recent years. Any failure by our independent manufacturers to adhere to labor or other laws or appropriate labor or business practices, and the potential litigation, negative publicity and political pressure relating to any of these events, could harm our business and reputation. Our suppliers may be impacted by economic conditions and cycles and changing laws and regulatory requirements which could impact their ability to do business with us or cause us to terminate our relationship with them and require us to find replacements, which we may have difficulty doing. Our suppliers are subject to the fluctuations in general economic cycles, and global economic conditions may impact their ability to operate their businesses. They may also be impacted by the increasing costs of raw materials, labor and distribution, resulting in demands for less attractive contract terms or an inability for them to meet our requirements or conduct their own businesses. The performance and financial condition of a supplier may cause us to alter our business terms or to cease doing business with a particular supplier, or change our sourcing practices generally, which could in turn adversely affect our business and financial condition. Regulatory developments such as the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries could affect the sourcing and availability of raw materials used by our suppliers in the manufacturing of certain of our products. We have been and may continue to be subject to costs associated with regulations, including for the diligence pertaining to the presence of any conflict minerals used in our products and the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The impact of the regulations may result in a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our consumers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in the products we sell. If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us, we may incur significant losses. As part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps, with various financial institutions. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United States and abroad. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty’s liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of members of the Company’s executive management and other key employees could harm our business. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees, and the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Competition for experienced and well-qualified employees in our industry is particularly intense in many of the places where we do business, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Most of the employees in our production and distribution facilities are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and any material job actions could negatively affect our results of operations. In North America, most of our distribution employees are covered by various collective bargaining agreements, and outside North America, most of our production and distribution employees are covered by either industry-sponsored and/or government-sponsored collective bargaining mechanisms. Any work stoppages or other job actions by these employees could harm our business and reputation. Our licensees and franchisees may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements which could negatively affect our reputation and business. We license our trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of various products. While we enter into comprehensive agreements with our licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, our licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under our brand names that do not meet our quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet our supplier code of conduct. These activities could harm our brand equity, our reputation and our business. In addition, we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in limited circumstances, websites, in many countries around the world. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. While the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. Failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. Our success depends on the continued protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights. Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or inability to enforce trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a global basis. Our efforts to establish and protect our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products. Unauthorized copying of our products or unauthorized use of our trademarks or other proprietary rights may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant reputational harm to our brand names and our ability to effectively represent ourselves to our customers, contractors, suppliers and/or licensees. Moreover, others may seek to assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property, including through civil and/or criminal prosecution. We may not be able to successfully resolve those claims, which may result in financial liability and criminal penalties. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow us to protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to in the United States and other countries. We have substantial liabilities and cash requirements associated with postretirement benefits, pension and our deferred compensation plans. Our postretirement benefits, pension, and our deferred compensation plans result in substantial liabilities on our balance sheet. These plans and activities have and will generate substantial cash requirements for us, and these requirements may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Many variables, such as changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, investment returns, and/or the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension, other postretirement, and postemployment benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. Plan liabilities may impair our liquidity, have an unfavorable impact on our ability to obtain financing and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors who do not have such liabilities and cash requirements. Natural disasters, public health crisis, political crisis, and other catastrophic events or other events outside of our control may damage our facilities or the facilities of third parties on which we depend, and could impact consumer spending. Our global headquarters and the headquarters of our Americas region are both located in California near major geologic faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past. An earthquake or other natural disaster or power shortages or outages could disrupt operations or impair critical systems. Any of these disruptions or other events outside of our control could affect our business negatively, harming our operating results. In addition, if any of our facilities, including our manufacturing, finishing or distribution facilities or our company-operated or franchised stores, or the facilities of our suppliers or customers, is affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, power shortages or outages, floods or monsoons; public health crisis, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crisis, such as terrorism, war, political instability or other conflict; or other events outside of our control, our business and operating results could suffer. Moreover, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally, which could adversely impact our operating results. Disasters occurring at our vendors’ manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers’ perception of our brands. Risks Relating to Our Debt We have debt and interest payment requirements at a level that may restrict our future operations. As of we had approximately $1.0 billion of debt, all of which was unsecured, and we had $784.3 million of additional borrowing capacity under our amended and restated senior secured revolving credit facility. Our debt requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes, and result in us having lower net income than we would otherwise have had. This dedicated use of cash could impact our ability to successfully compete by, for example: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. In addition, borrowings under our amended and restated senior secured revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in market interest rates could require a greater portion of our cash flow to be used to pay interest, which could further hinder our operations. Increases in market interest rates may also affect the trading price of our debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Restrictions in our notes, indentures and amended and restated senior secured revolving credit facility may limit our activities, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. Our amended and restated senior secured revolving credit facility and the indentures relating to our senior unsecured notes contain restrictions, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make acquisitions and other investments, prepay specified debt, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses, sell assets, pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase stock, and enter into transactions with affiliates. These restrictions, in combination with our leveraged condition, may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy, grow our business or compete with companies not similarly restricted. If our foreign subsidiaries are unable to distribute cash to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under our debt securities, which could force us to sell assets or use cash that we were planning to use elsewhere in our business. We conduct our international operations through foreign subsidiaries and we only receive the cash that remains after our foreign subsidiaries satisfy their obligations. We may depend upon funds from our foreign subsidiaries for a portion of the funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations. Any agreements our foreign subsidiaries enter into with other parties, as well as applicable laws and regulations limiting the right and ability of non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates to pay dividends and remit cash to affiliated companies, may restrict the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If those subsidiaries are unable to pass on the amount of cash that we need, we may be unable to make payments on our debt obligations, which could force us to sell assets or use cash that we were planning on using elsewhere in our business, which could hinder our operations and affect the trading price of our debt securities. Volatility in the capital markets could affect our ability to access capital or could increase our costs of capital. A downturn or disruption in the credit markets may reduce sources of liquidity available to us or increase our costs of capital, which could impact our ability to maintain or grow our business, which in turn may adversely affect our business and results of operations.