Business Overview Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, with formats that include Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker Lady Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Footaction, Runners Point, Sidestep and SIX:02. The Direct-to-Customers segment includes Footlocker.com, Inc. and other affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., and our international ecommerce businesses, which sell to customers through their Internet and mobile sites and catalogs. The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the markets in which we operate, epitomizing premium quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided our ability to successfully develop and increase our portfolio of complementary retail store formats, such as Lady Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, its direct-to-customer business. Through various marketing channels and experiences, including social, digital, broadcast, and print media as well as various sports sponsorships and events, we reinforce our image with a consistent message namely, that we are the destination for athletically inspired shoes and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment. Store Profile Square Footage January 30, January 28, Relocations/ (in thousands) Opened Closed Remodels Selling Gross Foot Locker U.S. 2,453 4,250 Foot Locker Europe 1,971 Foot Locker Canada Foot Locker Asia Pacific Kids Foot Locker 1,175 Lady Foot Locker Champs Sports 1,930 2,978 Footaction 1,309 Runners Point Sidestep SIX:02 Total 3,383 3,363 7,634 13,118 Athletic Stores We operate 3,363 stores in the Athletic Stores segment as of the end of 2016 The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses and their respective taglines: Foot Locker “Approved” Foot Locker is a leading global athletic footwear and apparel retailer, which caters to the sneaker aficionado If it’s at Foot Locker, it’s Approved These stores offer the latest in athletically-inspired footwear and apparel, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker provides the best selection of premium and limited products that supports the global sneaker culture. Additionally, we operate 217 House of Hoops shops which sell premier basketball-inspired footwear and apparel from Nike and Jordan; 15 Puma Labs, selling Puma’s most creative and limited footwear and apparel styles and adidas Foundation, offering the freshest assortment of both adidas performance and Originals product Foot Locker’s 1,784 stores are located in 23 countries including 948 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 119 in Canada, 622 in Europe, and a combined 95 in Australia and New Zealand. Our domestic stores have an average of 2,600 selling square feet and our international stores have an average of 1,600 selling square feet. Kids Foot Locker “Go Big” Kids Foot Locker offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for young children Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Of its 411 stores, 370 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, 29 in Europe, and 12 in Canada. These stores have an average of 1,700 selling square feet. Lady Foot Locker —“ Leading Sneaker Culture for Her Lady Foot Locker is a U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories dedicated to sneaker-obsessed young women. Our stores provide premium sneakers and apparel, carefully selected to reflect the latest styles. Lady Foot Locker operates 124 stores that are located in the United States and Puerto Rico. These stores have an average of 1,300 selling square feet. Champs Sports “We Know Game” Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. With a focus on the lifestyle expression of sport, Champs Sports’ product categories include athletic footwear and apparel, and sport-lifestyle inspired accessories. This assortment allows Champs Sports to offer the best head-to-toe fashion stories representing the most powerful athletic brands, sports teams, and athletes in North America. Of its 545 stores, 516 are located throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands and 29 in Canada. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,500 selling square feet. Footaction “Own It” Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer that offers the freshest, best edited selection of athletic lifestyle brands and looks This banner is uniquely positioned at the intersection of sport and style. The primary customer is a style-obsessed, confident, influential young male who is always dressed to impress Its 261 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on authentic, premium product. The Footaction stores have an average of 3,000 selling square feet. Runners Point “Your Way, Our Passion” Runners Point specializes in running footwear, apparel, and equipment for performance and lifestyle purposes. Its 122 stores are located in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. This banner caters to local running communities providing technical products, training tips and access to local running and group events while also serving their lifestyle running needs Runners Point stores have an average of 1,300 selling square feet. Sidestep “Sneaker Lifestyle” Sidestep is a predominantly athletic fashion footwear banner. Its 86 stores are located in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. Sidestep caters to a more discerning, fashion forward consumer. Sidestep stores have an average of 900 selling square feet. SIX:02 —“It’s Your Time SIX:02 is an elevated retail concept designed for the modern woman, featuring top brands in athletic-inspired style. The apparel, footwear, and accessor assortments are carefully curated to provide a unique athletic fashion point of view, fusing performance and casual style. This banner leverages top celebrity and social influencers to connect meaningfully to all aspects of a woman’s life. SIX:02 operates 30 stores in the United States and have an average of 2,000 selling square feet. Direct-to-Customers Our Direct-to-Customers segment is multi-branded and sells directly to customers through Internet and mobile sites and catalogs. The Direct-to-Customers segment operates the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, eastbayteamsales.com, and sp24.com. Additionally, this segment includes the websites, both desktop and mobile, aligned with the brand names of our store banners (footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, six02.com kidsfootlocker.com, champssports.com, footaction.com, footlocker.ca, footlocker.eu, runnerspoint.com, and sidestep-shoes.com). These sites offer some of the largest online selections of athletically inspired shoes and apparel, while providing a seamless link between ecommerce and physical store Eastbay “First Choice For Athletes” Eastbay is among the largest direct marketers in the United States, providing serious high school and other athletes with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, and team licensed merchandise for a broad range of sports. Franchise Operations The Company has two separate ten-year agreements with third parties for the operation of Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East and the Republic of Korea. Additionally, we operate franchised stores in Germany under the Runners Point banner. A total of 74 franchised stores were operating at January 28, 2017, of which 54 were operating in the Middle East, 15 in Germany, and in the Republic of Korea. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures In the following tables, we have presented certain financial measures and ratios identified as non-GAAP such as Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (“EBIT”), adjusted EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted income before income taxes, adjusted net income, adjusted net income margin, adjusted diluted earnings per share, Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”), free cash flow, and net debt capitalization. Additionally, we present certain amounts as excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, which are also considered non-GAAP measures. Throughout the following discussions, where amounts are expressed as excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, such changes are determined by translating all amounts in both years using the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. We present these non-GAAP measures because we believe they assist investors in comparing our performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that we do not believe are indicative of our core business or which affect comparability. Presenting amounts on a constant currency basis is useful to investors because it enables them to better understand the changes in our businesses that are not related to currency movements. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are useful in assessing our progress in achieving our long-term financial objectives. The non-GAAP financial information is provided in addition to, and not as an alternative to, our reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We estimate the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments by applying its marginal rate to each of the respective items. he income tax items represent the discrete amount Presented below is a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results discussed throughout this Annual Report on Please see the non-GAAP reconciliations for free cash flow and net debt capitalization in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section. ($ in millions) Sales 7,766 7,412 7,151 Pre-tax income: Income before income taxes 1,004 Pre-tax adjustments to net income: Impairment and other charges Pension litigation charge Runners Point Group integration and acquisition costs Gain on sale of real estate Adjusted income before income taxes 1,010 Calculation of Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT): Income before income taxes 1,004 Interest expense, net EBIT 1,006 Adjusted income before income taxes 1,010 Interest expense, net Adjusted EBIT 1,012 EBIT margin 13.0 11.3 11.4 Adjusted EBIT margin 13.0 12.8 11.4 ($ in millions, except per share amounts) After-tax income: Net income After-tax adjustments to net income: Impairment and other charges, net of income tax benefit of $1, $1, and $1 million, respectively Pension litigation charge, net of income tax benefit of $—, $39, and $— million, respectively Runners Point Group acquisition and integration costs, net of income tax benefit of $—, $—, and $— million Gain on sale of real estate, net of income tax expense of $—, $—, and $1 million, respectively Tax expense related to French tax rate change Tax benefit related to enacted change in foreign branch currency regulations Tax benefit related to intellectual property reassessment Adjusted net income Earnings per share: Diluted EPS 4.91 3.84 3.56 Adjustments to diluted EPS: Impairment and other charges 0.03 0.02 0.02 Pension litigation charge 0.43 Runners Point Group acquisition and integration costs 0.01 Gain on sale of real estate Tax expense related to French tax rate change 0.02 Tax benefit related to enacted change in foreign branch currency regulations Tax benefit related to intellectual property reassessment Adjusted diluted EPS 4.82 4.29 3.58 Net income margin 8.6 7.3 7.3 Adjusted net income margin 8.4 8.2 7.3 ROIC is presented below and represents a non-GAAP measure. We believe it is a meaningful measure because it quantifies how efficiently we generated operating income relative to the capital we have invested in the business. In order to calculate ROIC, we adjust our results to reflect our operating leases as if they qualified for capital lease treatment. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the presentation of these leases as if they were capital leases is appropriate. Accordingly, the asset base and net income amounts are adjusted to reflect this in the calculation of ROIC. ROIC, subject to certain adjustments, is also used as a measure in executive long-term incentive compensation. The closest U.S. GAAP measure to ROIC is Return on Assets (“ROA”) and is also represented below. ROA increased to 17.4 percent as compared to 14.7 percent in the prior year which partially relates to the fact that the prior year results included a $61 million after-tax litigation charge. Additionally, our overall improved performance in 2016 also increased ROA Our ROIC decreased to 15.1 percent as compared to 15.8 percent in the prior year. This reflected an increase in our average invested capital as a result of the inclusion of our new headquarters lease and the effect of opening larger stores supporting the various shop-in-shop initiatives. ROA 17.4 14.7 14.7 ROIC 15.1 15.8 15.0 Represents net income of $664 million, $541 million, and $520 million divided by average total assets of $3,808 million, $3,676 million, and $3,532 million for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively Calculation of ROIC: ($ in millions) Adjusted EBIT 1,012 Rent expense Estimated depreciation on capitalized operating leases (552) (498) (482) Adjusted net operating profit 1,150 1,088 Adjusted income tax expense (409) (391) (347) Adjusted return after taxes Average total assets 3,808 3,676 3,532 Average cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (994) (917) Average non-interest bearing current liabilities (656) (697) (659) Average merchandise inventories Average estimated asset base of capitalized operating leases 2,687 2,346 2,093 13-month average merchandise inventories 1,388 1,337 1,325 Average invested capital 4,897 4,400 4,139 ROIC 15.1 15.8 15.0 The determination of the capitalized operating leases and the adjustments to income have been calculated on a lease-by-lease basis and have been consistently calculated in each of the years presented above. Capitalized operating leases represent the best estimate of the asset base that would be recorded for operating leases as if they had been classified as capital or as if the property were purchased. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.5 percent to 14.5 percent, which represents our incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. The capitalized operating leases and related income statement amounts disclosed above do not reflect the requirements of the recently issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, Leases. The adjusted income tax expense represents the marginal tax rate applied to net operating profit for each of the periods presented. The adjusted return after taxes does not include interest expense that would be recorded on a capital lease. Overview of Consolidated Results The following represents our long-term objectives and our progress towards meeting those objectives. Non-GAAP results are presented for all the periods. Please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” earlier in this section for further information relating to non-GAAP measures, including why we believe they are useful and how they are calculated. Long-term Objectives Sales ($ in millions) 10,000 7,766 7,412 7,151 Sales per gross square foot Adjusted net income margin 8.5 8.4 8.2 7.3 Adjusted EBIT margin 12.5 13.0 12.8 11.4 ROIC 17.0 15.1 15.8 15.0 Highlights of our 2016 financial performance include: Sales and comparable-store sales, as noted in the table below, both increased and continued to benefit from exciting assortments and enhanced store formats across our various banners, as well as improved performance of our store banner.com websites. Sales increase 4.8 3.6 9.9 Comparable-store sales increase 4.3 8.5 8.0 The following represents the percentage of sales from each of the major product categories: Footwear sales Apparel and accessories sales Sales from the Direct-to-Customers segment increased 8.3 percent to $1,022 million, compared with $944 million in 2015 and increased 50 basis points as a percentage of total sales to 13.2 percent. The direct business has been steadily increasing as a percentage of total sales over the last several years, led by the continued growth in the store banners’ ecommerce sales. Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, increased by 10 basis points to 33.9 percent in 2016. The improvement was primarily driven by an increase in our merchandise margin rate, reflecting a lower markdown rate compared to the prior year. SG&A expenses were 19.0 percent of sales, a decrease of 10 basis points as compared with the prior year, as we continued to diligently manage variable expenses. EBIT margin and our adjusted EBIT margin was 13.0 percent in 2016, which surpassed our long-term financial objective, as well as the rate in the prior year. This reflected the strong earnings generated during 2016. Net income was $664 million, or $4.91 diluted ear nings per share, an increase of 27.9 percent from the prior-year period. Adjusted et income was $652 million, or $4.82 diluted earnings per share, an increase of 12.4 percent from the prior-year period. Net income margin increased to 8.6 percent as compared with 7.3 percent in the prior year. Our adjusted net income margin improved 20 basis points to 8.4 percent in 2016 compared to the prior year, making progress towards reaching our long term objective measure of 8.5 percent. Highlights of our 2016 financial position: We ended the year in a strong financial position. At year end, we had $919 million of cash and cash equivalents, net of debt. Cash and cash equivalents at January 28, 2017 were $1,046 million, representing an increase of $25 million as compared with last year. This improvement reflects earnings strength and the successful execution of various key initiatives noted in the items below. Net cash provided by operating activities was $816 million, representing a $71 million increase over last year. Cash capital expenditures during 2016 totaled $266 million and were primarily directed to the remodeling or relocation of 218 stores, the build-out of 96 new stores, as well as other technology and infrastructure projects. During 2016 we returned significant value to our shareholders. Dividends totaling $147 million were declared and paid during 2016, and 7.0 million shares were repurchased under our share repurchase program at a cost of $432 million. Summary of Consolidated Statements of Operations (in millions, except per share data) Sales 7,766 7,412 7,151 Gross margin 2,636 2,505 2,374 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,472 1,415 1,426 Depreciation and amortization Interest expense, net Net income Diluted earnings per share 4.91 3.84 3.56 Sales All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales of stores that were open at the period-end and had been open for more than one year. The computation of comparable-store sales also includes the sales of the Direct-to-Customers segment. Stores opened or closed during the period are not included in the comparable-store base; however, stores closed temporarily for relocation or remodeling are included. Computations exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Sales of $7,766 million in 2016 increased by 4.8 percent from sales of $7,412 million in 2015, represent ing a comparable-store sales increase of 4.3 percent. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales increased 5.2 percent as compared with 2015. Sales of $7,412 million in 2015 increased by 3.6 percent from sales of $7,151 million in 2014, this represented a comparable-store sales increase of 8.5 percent. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales increased 8.9 percent as compared with 2014. Gross Margin Gross margin rate 33.9 33.8 33.2 Basis point increase in the gross margin rate Components of the change- Merchandise margin rate improvement (Higher) Lower occupancy and buyers' compensation expense rate The improvement in the merchandise margin rate in 2016 reflects a lower markdown rate, primarily in our Athletic Stores segment, due to an increase in full-price selling. This improvement was partially offset by increased promotional activity within our Direct-to-Customers segment. The change in the gross margin rate also reflects an increase in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation rate compared to 2015. This pressured our gross margin rate as certain high-profile locations were closed for remodeling for all or part of the year, which increased the occupancy expense rate since these locations were not generating sales while incurring tenancy costs. Gross margin in 2015 improved 60 basis points to 33.8 percent as compared with 2014. The improvement was driven by both an improved merchandise margin rate and a decrease in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation rate reflecting improved sales leverage. The improvement in the merchandise margin rate primarily reflected an enhanced ability to achieve full-priced selling, as fewer markdowns were needed due to the freshness of inventory. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) ($ in millions) SG&A 1,472 1,415 1,426 Change Change 4.0 SG&A as a percentage of sales 19.0 19.1 19.9 SG&A increased by $57 million and 4.0 percent as compared with the prior year. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations for the current year was not significant. As a percentage of sales, the SG&A rate decreased by 10 basis points as compared with 2015, which reflected diligent expense management specifically in store wages by our Athletic Stores segment and was partially offset by increased marketing costs incurred by our Direct-to-Customers segment in order to drive traffic to its websites. For 2015, excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $72 million as compared with 2014. The increase was driven by higher variable expenses to support sales, such as store wages and banking expenses. As a percentage of sales, SG&A improved 80 basis points representing improved leverage of our fixed costs as a result of our sales increase. This improvement reflected effective expense management, specifically store wage improvements due to productivity gains reflecting the continued utilization of hiring and scheduling tools. Depreciation and Amortization ($ in millions) Depreciation and amortization Change Change 6.8 6.5 Depreciation and amortization increased $10 million in 2016. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations for the current year was not significant. The increases in both 2016 and 2015 reflect a rise in capital spending on store improvements, our new corporate headquarte rs, our digital sites and various corporate technolog upgrades In addition, the 2014 amount included $2 million of capital accrual adjustments which reduced depreciation and amortization. Impairment and Litigation Charges During 2016 and 2015, we recorded impairment charges totaling $6 million ($5 million after-tax or $0.03 per diluted share), and million ($3 million after-tax or $0.02 per diluted share), respectively, relating to the write down of store fixtures and leasehold improvements for our Runners Point and Sidestep stores. Also during 2015, we recorded an impairment charge totaling $1 million to fully write down the value of an ecommerce trade name. During 2015, we recorded a $100 million pension litigation charge ($61 million after-tax or $0.43 per diluted share). This charge relates to a class action in which the plaintiffs alleged that the Company failed to properly disclose the effects of the 1996 conversion of the retirement plan to a defined benefit plan with a cash balance formula. In September 2015, the court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and issued a decision ordering that the pension plan be reformed. We are appealing the court’s decision, and the judgment has been stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. Our reasonable estimate of this liability is a range between $100 million and $200 million, with no amount within that range more probable than any other amount. Therefore, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $100 million. Please see Item 8. “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 3, Impairment and Litigation Charges and Note 22, Legal Proceedings for further information. Interest Expense, Net ($ in millions) Interest expense Interest income Interest expense, net Weighted-average interest rate (excluding fees) 7.2 7.2 7.2 Net interest expense decreased by $2 million in 2016 as compared with 2015, and decreased $1 million in 2015 as compared with 2014. The decrease in net interest expense for both 2016 and 2015 primarily represented increased income due to higher average interest rates on our cash investments. We did not have any short-term borrowings, other than amounts related to capital leases, for any of the periods presented. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for 2016 was 33.9 percent, as compared with 35.4 percent in 2015. We regularly assess the adequacy of provisions for income tax contingencies in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance on accounting for income taxes. As a result, reserves for unrecognized tax benefits may be adjusted due to new facts and developments, such as changes to interpretations of relevant tax law, assessments from taxing authorities, settlements with taxing authorities, and lapses of statutes of limitations. The effective tax rate for 2016 and 2015 includes reserve releases totaling $1 million and $4 million, respectively, due to audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations. On December 7, 2016, the U.S. Treasury issued regulations under Internal Revenue Code Section 987 (“Section 987 Regulations”) which requires us to change our method for determining the tax effects of foreign currency translation gains and losses for our foreign businesses that are operated as branches and are reported in a currency other than the currency of their parent. This change resulted in an increase to deferred tax assets and a corresponding reduction in our income tax provision in the amount of $9 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. During the fourth quarter of 2016, we also recorded tax expense of $2 million ($0.02 per diluted share) due to a corporate income tax rate change in France. During the third quarter of 2016, we performed a scheduled reassessment of the value of the intellectual property (“IP”) provided to our European business by Foot Locker in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2012. Driven by the recent success of the Foot Locker business in Europe, the new, higher valuation resulted in catch-up deductions that reduced tax expense by $10 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. In 2015, we recorded a pension-related litigation charge of $100 million with a related tax benefit of $39 million or $0.43 per diluted share This litigation charge reduced the overall effective rate because it reduced the proportion of our worldwide income taxed in the United States, where the tax rates are the highest. The effective tax rate for 2015 was 35.4 percent, as compared with 35.7 percent in 2014. Excluding the reserve releases in 2015 and 2014 and the effect of the pension litigation charge, the effective tax rate for 2015 was essentially unchanged as compared with 2014. Segment Information We have two reportable segments, Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers, which are based on our method of internal reporting. We evaluate performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division results. Division profit reflects income before income taxes, pension litigation charge, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense. Sales ($ in millions) Athletic Stores 6,744 6,468 6,286 Direct-to-Customers 1,022 7,766 7,412 7,151 Operating Results Athletic Stores Direct-to-Customers Division profit 1,070 1,014 Less: Pension litigation charge Less: Corporate expense Operating profit 1,000 Other income Earnings before interest expense and income taxes 1,006 Interest expense, net Income before income taxes 1,004 Athletic Stores ($ in millions) Sales 6,744 6,468 6,286 Change Change 4.3 2.9 Division profit Division profit margin 13.7 13.5 12.4 2016 compared with 2015 Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales from our Athletic Stores segment increased by 4.7 percent. Of the total increase, 69 percent was generated by our domestic businesses, with almost all banners contributing to the growth. Champs Sports drove the domestic performance, while internationally the increase was driven by our Foot Locker Europe operations. Partially offsetting these increases were declines from Lady Foot Locker and our Runners Point and Sidestep banners. The Lady Foot Locker sales decline primarily represented the effect of store closures. The Runners Point and Sidestep banners continued to experience sales declines during 2016 as a result of assortment and traffic challenges. We continue our focus on improving these banners by better diversifying and refining our product offerings, along with providing a more elevated in-store experience. During 2015 and currently continuing, we began broadening the assortment in the Runners Point stores beyond performance running to include more lifestyle running products while the Sidestep stores shifted to lifestyle and casual footwear. We believe that these initiatives will position the banners for future growth. Comparable-store sales increased by 3.6 percent as compared with 2015. Footwear sales continue to be the primary contributor to our sales growth during 2016 and reflected strong gains across men’s, children’s, and women’s footwear categories. Our children’s footwear business had a very successful year experiencing comparable-store gains across almost all of our store banners, led by sales from Champs Sports and Kids Foot Locker. During 2016, we opened 45 new Kids Foot Locker stores, 16 of which are in Europe and Canada. The addition of these stores reflects our expectation that the momentum of our children’s business will continue. Within footwear, lifestyle running was the strongest category, while ur basketball business slightly declined for the year. Our apparel sales also generated positive results during the current year his category was led primarily by gains in branded and private-label apparel sales at Champs Sports. Foot Locker Europe’s apparel sales also increased during the current year and was driven by sales of men’s branded apparel. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, increased 20 basis points as compared with 2015. During 2016, a $6 million impairment charge was recorded to write down the value of store fixtures and leasehold improvements for 116 Runners Point and Sidestep stores. Excluding the effect of the impairment charge, division profit, as a percentage of sales, increased 30 basis points as compared with the prior year. The division profit rate improvement reflected an improved merchandise margin rate due to a lower markdown rate coupled with diligent expense management. 2015 compared with 2014 Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased 8.6 percent. Comparable-store sales increased by 7.6 percent. Foot Locker Europe and Foot Locker Asia Pacific led the comparable-stores sales increase. Foot Locker Europe generated double digit comparable-store gains in footwear, apparel, and accessories. The increase in footwear was primarily related to sales of classic court styles, lifestyle running, and men’s basketball. Apparel sales experienced gains in both the branded and private label categories. The strong performance internationally was partially offset by the underperformance of the Runners Point and Sidestep stores. The sales decline at our Runners Point and Sidestep stores reflected the continued segmentation process and the overreliance on a few key running styles. Our segmentation process include better defining product offerings and executing upon our multi-banner strategy in the European market. During 2015 we began the process of shifting the assortment in the Runners Point stores beyond performance running to include more lifestyle running products, while the Sidestep stores were being shifted to lifestyle and casual footwear. Domestically, sales increases were led by Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker with all formats generating a comparable-store sales increase. Running and basketball were the strongest drivers of footwear sales. The Jordan brand, as well as the rise of new marquee styles contributed to the growth in the basketball category. Children’s footwear sales also performed well across all of the divisions. Sales continue to benefit from the expansion of shop-in-shop partnerships with our key vendors. We opened more than 40 shop-in-shops during 2015, including 21 House of Hoops shops in partnership with Nike. While Lady Foot Locker/SIX:02’s overall sales declined slightly in 2015, the combined banners produced a mid-single digit comparable-store sales gain The comparable-store gain was led by both footwear and apparel, partially offset by a decline in accessories. The overall sales decline reflected the closure of 42 Lady Foot Locker stores partially offset by the opening of 15 SIX:02 stores during 2015. Champs Sports generated a low single digit comparable-store sales increase driven by gains in footwear sales partially offset by declines in apparel and accessories. The decline in apparel primarily reflect ed the continuation of the customer’s shift away from licensed apparel. Division profit increased by $95 million to $872 million in 2015 as compared with 2014, which reflected higher sales and an improved gross margin rate. Variable expenses, such as store wages, were also diligently managed, resulting in an improved SG&A rate. Due to the underperformance of the Runners Point and Sidestep stores during 2015, an impairment review was performed. The review resulted in an impairment charge totaling $4 million, which was recorded to write down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for 61 stores. Direct-to-Customers ($ in millions) Sales 1,022 Change Change 8.3 9.1 Division profit Division profit margin 14.0 15.0 12.6 2016 compared with 2015 Comparable-sales for the Direct-to-Customers segment increased 8.8 percent as compared with the prior year. Our domestic and international store-banner websites continue to represent the majority of the overall growth in sales, which was partially offset by declines in Eastbay, Runners Point and Sidestep ecommerce businesses. The overall increase in sales was led by our footwear category. Consistent with our Athletic Stores segment, footwear sales increased in men’s, women’s, and children’s. The positive sales increase in men’s footwear was primarily driven by strong gains by the Jordan brand. The increase in women’ footwear was driven by casual styles. Direct-to-Customers division profit, as a percent of sales, declined 100 basis points as compared with the prior year. The decline in the division profit rate reflected increased spending in marketing related costs which was incurred in order to drive traffic to our websites. Also contributing to the decline in the division profit rate was a decline in the gross margin rate as a result of greater promotional activity by our domestic ecommerce business especially Eastbay 2015 compared with 2014 Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales of the Direct-to-Customers segment increased 10.6 percent as compared with while comparable sales increased by 14.4 percent. The increase was primarily a result of the continued strong sales performance of our domestic store-banner websites, as well as growth in our international ecommerce business, particularly in Europe. Of the total increase, sales from our U.S. store-banner websites comprised the majority of the increase. The growth in ecommerce reflected the continued elevation of the connection between the in-store experience and the banner websites, as well as the development of features and functionality to deliver an enhanced digital experience. These increases were partially offset by the 2014 closure of the CCS direct business. The strongest category for this segment was footwear, led by basketball and casual styles. Apparel increased slightly as compared with which primarily reflected gains in the branded apparel category. Th Direct-to-Customers segment generated a division profit increase of $33 million in 2015 as compared with 2014, which represented a division profit margin improvement of 240 basis points. The increase was the result of strong flow-through of sales to profit, resulting from improved gross margin due to more full-price selling and effective expense management. The improvement in gross margin was due, in part, to the fact that 2014 was negatively affected by the liquidation of the CCS merchandise. Division profit in 2015 included a $1 million impairment charge to write down the value of the sp 24.com ecommerce trade name, which was acquired with the Runners Point Group. sp 24.com is a clearance website that has been deemphasized as we focus on full-priced selling on the websites aligned with the store banners. Corporate Expense ($ in millions) Corporate expense Change Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense was $14 million, $11 million, and $13 million in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. Corporate expense decreased by $7 million in 2016 as compared with the prior year. The annual adjustment of the allocation of corporate expense to the operating divisions reduced corporate expense by $9 million. This was partially offset by an increase of $3 million in depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense. During 2016, we also incurred $4 million of expenses related to our corporate headquarters relocation within New York City, as compared with $3 million during the prior year. The remaining change primarily reflected lower incentive compensation expense in 2016 Corporate expense decreased by $4 million in 2015 as compared with 2014 Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense decreased by $2 million. The annual adjustment of the allocation of corporate expense to the operating divisions reduced corporate expense by $5 million. These decreases were offset by $3 million of costs incurred in late 2015 relating to the pring 2016 headquarters relocation. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity has been cash flow from earnings, while the principal uses of cash have been: to fund inventory and other working capital requirements; to finance capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, Internet and mobile sites, information systems, and other support facilities; to make retirement plan contributions, quarterly dividend payments, and interest payments; and to fund other cash requirements to support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies. We generally finance real estate with operating leases. We believe our cash, cash equivalents, and future cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund these requirements. As of January 28, 2017, we had $1,046 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $730 million was held in foreign jurisdictions. I accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from potential future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries ecause we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings. Depending on the source, amount and timing of a repatriation, and changes in tax regulations including recent proposals regarding the taxation of unremitted earnings, some future tax may be payable We believe that our cash invested domestically and future domestic cash flows are sufficient to satisfy domestic equirements. The Company may also from time to time repurchase its common stock or seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases and retirement of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. On February 2017, the Board of Directors approved a new 3-year, $1.2 billion share repurchase program extending through January 2020, replacing the previous $1 billion program. Also on this date, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share to be paid on April 28 2017, representing a 13 percent increase over the previous quarterly per share amount. As discussed further in the Legal Proceedings note under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” during 2015 in connection with our pension litigation, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $100 million ($61 million after-tax). In light of the uncertainties involved in this matter, there is no assurance that the ultimate resolution will not differ from the amount currently accrued by us. The $100 million charge has been classified as a long-term liability due to the uncertainty involved with the resolution of this litigation, as the appeals process can be lengthy. The pension plan is currently sufficiently funded to absorb a $100 million liability and, accordingly, we do not anticipate the need to make any additional pension contributions in the near term in connection with this matter. The timing and the amount of contributions to the pension plan are dependent on the funded status of the plan and various other factors, such as interest rates and the performance of the plan’s assets. Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, or customer acceptance of our merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, our reliance on a few key suppliers for a significant portion of our merchandise purchases and risks associated with global product sourcing, economic conditions worldwide, the effects of currency fluctuations, as well as other factors listed under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” could affect our ability to continue to fund our needs from business operations. Maintaining access to merchandise that we consider appropriate for our business may be subject to the policies and practices of our key suppliers. Therefore, we believe that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with these key suppliers. In 2016 and 2015, we purchased approximately 91 percent and 90 percent, respectively, of our merchandise from our top five suppliers and expect to continue to obtain a significant percentage of our athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. Approximately 68 percent in 2016 and 72 percent in 2015 was purchased from one supplier Nike, Inc. Our 2017 planned capital expenditures and lease acquisition costs are approximately $277 million. Planned capital expenditures are $272 million and planned lease acquisition costs related to our operations in Europe are $5 million. Planned capital expenditures reflect $191 million focused on elevating the customer’s in-store experience. It also includes the remodeling and expansion of over 200 existing stores, the planned opening of approximately 90 stores primarily related to Kids Foot Locker in the U.S. and Europe, as well as the continued expansion of the Foot Locker banner in Europe. Planned spending for 2017 also includes $81 million for the development of information systems, including a new ecommerce order management system, websites, and infrastructure. We have the ability to revise and reschedule much of the anticipated capital expenditure program, should our financial position require it. Free Cash Flow (non-GAAP measure) In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, we use free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of our strength and our ability to generate cash. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). We believe the presentation of free cash flow is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the cash generated from underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management. Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash flow provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow. ($ in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities Capital expenditures (266) (228) (190) Free cash flow Operating Activities ($ in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities Change The amount provided by operating activities reflects income adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. Adjustments to net income for non-cash items include non-cash impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, share-based compensation expense and related tax benefits. The improvements in both 2016 and 2015 represented the Company’s earnings strength and working capital improvements. During 2016, we contributed $33 million to our U.S. qualified pension plan and $3 million to our Canadian qualified pension plan, as compared with $4 million contributed to the U.S. qualified pension plan in 2015. Pension contributions were $6 million in 2014. The amounts and timing of pension contributions are dependent on several factors, including asset performance. Cash paid for income taxes was $341 million, $283 million, and $251 million for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. Investing Activities ($ in millions) Net cash used in investing activities Change Capital expenditures in 2016 were $266 million, an increase of $38 million as compared with the prior year. The increase was due, in part, to the build out of our new corporate headquarters and two new flagship stores in New York City. Current year capital expenditures also reflects increased spending on corporate technology projects. During 2016 we completed the remodeling or relocation of 218 existing stores and opened 96 new stores. As of the end of fiscal 2016, approximately 40 percent of our domestic Foot Locker and Champs Sports stores, approximately one third of our stores in Europe, and approximately 25 percent of the Footaction stores have been remodeled to the ir respective new store format Capital expenditures in 2015 were $228 million, primarily related to the remodeling of 209 stores, the build-out of 111 new stores, and various corporate technology upgrades. This was an increase of $38 million as compared with 2014, as the timing of certain projects shifted to 2015. During the third quarter of 2015, we completed an asset acquisition for $2 million involving 10 previously franchised Runners Point and Sidestep stores in Switzerland. During 2014, we sold real estate for proceeds of $5 million and recorded a gain on sale of $4 million. In addition, maturities of short-term investments totaled $9 million in 2014. Financing Activities ($ in millions) Net cash used in financing activities Change Cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of our return to shareholders initiatives, including our share repurchase program and cash dividend payments, as follows: ($ in millions) Share repurchases Dividends paid on common stock Total returned to shareholders uring 2016, 2015, and 2014, we repurchased 6,984,643 shares, 6,693,100 shares, and 5,888,698 shares of our common stock under our share repurchase programs, respectively. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends representing a quarterly rate of $0.275, $0.25, and $0.22 per share in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. Offsetting the amounts above were proceeds received from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $33 million, $69 million, and $22 million for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. In connection with stock option exercises, we recorded excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $20 million, $35 million, and $12 million for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. I connection with the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, excess tax benefits and deficiencies will be recorded to the income statement rather than to equity a of the beginning of 2017. Additionally, with the adoption of this ASU, excess tax benefits and deficiencies will be classified as cash flows from operations. In May 2016, we entered into a new $400 million credit agreement and in connection with this transaction we paid fees of $2 million. The financing activity also includes payments on capital lease obligations of $1 million, $2 million, and $3 million for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. These obligations were recorded in connection with the acquisition of the Runners Point Group. Capital Structure On May 19, 2016, we entered into a new credit agreement with our banks (“2016 Credit Agreement”) that replaced the prior credit agreement (“2011 Restated Credit Agreement”). The 2016 Credit Agreement provides for a $400 million asset-based revolving credit facility maturing on May 19, 2021. During the term of the 2016 Credit Agreement, we may also increase the commitments by up to $200 million, subject to customary conditions. Interest is determined, at our option, by the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.125 percent to 0.375 percent, or a Eurodollar rate, determined by reference to LIBOR, plus a margin of 1.125 percent to 1.375 percent depending on availability under the 2016 Credit Agreement. In addition, we will pay a commitment fee of 0.20 percent per annum on the unused portion of the commitments. The 2016 Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of our domestic store assets, including inventory assets, accounts receivable, cash deposits, and certain insurance proceeds. We are not required to comply with any financial covenants unless certain events of default have occurred and are continuing, or if availability under the 2016 Credit Agreement does not exceed the greater of $40 million and 10 percent of the Loan Cap (as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement). There are no restrictions relating to the payment of dividends and share repurchases as long as no default or event of default has occurred and the aggregate principal amount of unused commitments under the 2016 Credit Agreement is not less than 15 percent of the lesser of the aggregate amount of the commitments and the Borrowing Base, determined as of the preceding fiscal month and on a proforma basis for the following six fiscal months. We do not currently expect to borrow under the facility in 2017, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit. Credit Rating As of March 23, 2017, our corporate credit ratings from Standard Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB+ and Ba1, respectively. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service has rated our senior unsecured notes Ba2. Debt Capitalization and Equity (non-GAAP Measure) For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, we include the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.5 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent our incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies. ($ in millions) Long-term debt and obligations under capital leases Present value of operating leases 3,469 3,192 Total debt including the present value of operating leases 3,596 3,322 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 1,046 1,021 Total net debt including the present value of operating leases 2,550 2,301 Shareholders’ equity 2,710 2,553 Total capitalization 5,260 4,854 Total net debt capitalization percent Total net debt capitalization percent including the present value of operating leases 48.5 47.4 Cash and cash equivalents increased by $25 million during 2016, which was the result of strong cash flow generation from operating activities. Including the present value of operating leases, net debt capitalization percent increased by basis points in 2016, reflecting the effect of new leases related to flagship locations and ongoing lease renewals, partially offset by foreign exchange fluctuations. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments at January 28, 2017: Payments Due by Fiscal Period Contractual Cash 2022 and Obligations Total 2018-2019 2020-2021 Beyond ($ in millions) Long-term debt Operating leases 4,425 1,116 1,730 Other long-term liabilities Total contractual cash obligations 4,623 1,138 1,095 1,730 The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of our long-term debt, including interest; however, it excludes the unamortized gain of the interest rate swap of $9 million. Additional information is included in the Long-Term Debt and Obligations Under Capital Leases note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of our leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 20 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown. Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 28, 2017 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves, and various other accruals. The amount presented in the table represents the scheduled contribution of $25 million to our U.S. qualified pension plan that was made in February 2017 Other than this liability, other amounts (including our unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million, as well as interest and penalties of $1 million) have been excluded from the table above as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. emaining amounts for which the timing is known ha ve not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the Other Liabilities, Financial Instruments and Risk Management and Retirement Plans and Other Benefits notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Payments Due by Fiscal Period Other Commercial 2022 and Commitments Total 2018-2019 2020-2021 Beyond ($ in millions) Purchase commitments 2,489 2,489 Other Total other commercial commitments 2,525 2,512 Represents open purchase orders, as well as other commitments for merchandise purchases, at January 28, 2017. We are obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, we are generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain suppliers in response to shifts in consumer preferences. Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The majority of our contractual obligations relate to operating leases for our stores. Future scheduled lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as of January 28, 2017 are described in the table under Contractual Obligations and Commitments on the preceding page and with additional information in the Leases We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. Also, ur financial polic ies prohibit the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure. In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, we may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, we believe that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect our consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. We also operate certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed. Critical Accounting Policies Our responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, our accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the most significant accounting policies. In some cases, we are required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments. Merchandise Inventories and Cost of Sales Merchandise inventories for the Athletic Stores segment are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a sy stem of averages that requires estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts. Judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. Reserves are established based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current retail environment, inventory levels, and the age of the item. We believe this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable. Impairment of Long-Lived Tangible Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles Long-Lived Tangible Assets We perform an impairment review when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible assets may ot be recoverable. Our policy for determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a trigg ering event, we use assumptions which are predominately identified from our long-range strategic plans in performing an impairment review. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, we compare the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, we measure the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at our weighted-average cost of capital. We believe our policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results. During 2016, we conducted an impairment review of the Runners Point and Sidestep store-level assets, which resulted in an impairment charge of $6 million. Goodwill We review goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter of our fiscal year or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The review of impairment consists of either using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the assets is less than their respective carrying values or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. In performing the qualitative assessment, we consider many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including declines in our stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. If, based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, additional quantitative impairment testing is performed using a two-step test. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. We use a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and a market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The market approach requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests, or securities that have been sold. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. We evaluate the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair value of the reporting units, as well as the fair values of the corresponding assets and liabilities within the reporting units. In 2015 and 2016, we elected to perform our review of goodwill using a qualitative approach, and no reporting units were evaluated using the two-step impairment method. Based on the qualitative assessments performed for both 2015 and 2016, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values and that there are no reporting units at risk of impairment. In 2014, we elected to perform the first step of the two-step impairment analysis in connection with our annual review. This analysis concluded that the fair value of all the reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values. Other Intangibles Owned trademarks and trade names that have been determined to have indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment. Our impairment evaluation for indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of either a qualitative or quantitative assessment, similar to the process for goodwill. Other Intangibles, continued If the results of the qualitative assessment indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible is less than its carrying amount, or if we elect to proceed directly to a quantitative assessment, we calculate the fair value using a discounted cash flow method, based on the relief-from-royalty concept, and compare the fair value to the carrying value to determine if the asset is impaired. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates, and other variables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. Our 016 annual assessment using the qualitative method did not result in an impairment charge. During the third quarter of 2016, we also performed a quantitative assessment of certain tradenames as a result of a triggering event, and this review did not result in an impairment charge. During the fourth quarter of 2015, as a result of a triggering event, we recorded an impairment charge for indefinite-lived intangibles of $1 million. Share-Based Compensation We estimate the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes option pricing valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions, listed below, can materially affect the fair value of the options. Risk-free Interest Rate The risk-free interest rate is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued. Expected Volatility We estimate the expected volatility of our common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of our historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on our common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would cause a percent change to the fair value. Expected Term The expected term of options granted is estimated using historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which we believe are representative of future behavior. Increasing the expected term by one year increases the fair value by percent while decreasing the expected term changes it by percent Dividend Yield The expected dividend yield is derived from our historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately percent. Share-based compensation expense is recorded for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on the Company’s historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. As of the beginning of 2017, in connection with the adoption of ASU 2016-09, we have made the accounting policy election to discontinue estimating forfeitures and will account for forfeitures as they occur using a modified retrospective approach. Legal Contingencies We are exposed to various legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record a liability when a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. he accrual is recorded based on the reasonably estimable loss or range of loss. When no point of loss is more likely than another, we record the lowest amount in the estimated range of loss and disclose the estimated range. In 2015, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $100 million related to the pension plan litigation. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. We believe the accruals recorded within the consolidated financial statements properly reflect loss exposures that are both probable and reasonably estimable. ue to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. Pension and Postretirement Liabilities We review all assumptions used to determine our obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities annually with our independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and our intentions with regard to the plans. The assumptions used are: Long-Term Rate of Return The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return expected to be earned on the plans’ assets and is recognized as a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce the variability of future contributions. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2016 pension expense was 6.1 percent. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2016 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into expense over the average life expectancy of the inactive participants. Discount Rate An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. The discount rate is determined by reference to the Bond:Link interest rate model based upon a portfolio of highly rated U.S. corporate bonds with individual bonds that are theoretically purchased to settle the plan’s anticipated cash outflows. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of our Canadian benefit obligations was developed by using th at plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations. The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2016 benefit obligations related to our pension and postretirement plans was 4.0 percent. Changing the weighted-average discount rate by 50 basis points would have changed the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plans at January 28, 2017 by approximately $30 million and $33 million, depending on if the change was an increase or decrease, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation on the postretirement plan by approximately $1 million. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2016 pension expense or postretirement income. Trend Rate We maintain two postretirement medical plans, one covering certain executive officers and key employees (“SERP Medical Plan”), and the other covering all other associates. With respect to the SERP Medical Plan, a one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would change this plan’s accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $2 million. With respect to the postretirement medical plan covering all other associates, there is limited risk to us for increases in health care costs since, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs. Mortality Assumptions The mortality table used to determine the pension obligation in 2016 and 2015 was the RP-2000 mortality table with generational projection using scale AA for both males and females. This mortality table was chosen after considering alternative or more recent tables issued by the Society of Actuaries. We chose the RP-2000 table because it resulted in the closest match to our actual experience. For the SERP Medical Plan, the mortality assumption was updated to the RPH-2016 table with generational projection using MP-2016, which represents the most recent study from the Society of Actuaries. We expect to record postretirement income of approximately $1 million and pension expense of approximately $19 million in 2017. Income Taxes In accordance with U.S. GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We are required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use our judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. Estimates of taxable income are based upon our long-range strategic plans. A one percent change in the overall statutory tax rate for 2016 would have resulted in a change of $5 million to the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether the tax rate change was a decrease or an increase. We have operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and we are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require us to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates. Excluding the effect of any nonrecurring items that may occur, we expect the 2017 effective tax rate to approximate 34 percent including the change required by ASC 718 for treatment of excess tax benefits or deficiencies from share-based compensation being recorded to the income tax provision rather than to equity. The actual tax rate will vary if the level of stock option exercise activity and the stock price at the vesting or exercise date differs from our expectations Additionally, the tax rate will also depend on the level and mix of income earned in the United States, as compared with our international operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Descriptions of the recently issued accounting principles, and the accounting principles adopted by us during the year ended January 28, 2017 are included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Other than statements of historical facts, all statements which address activities, events, or developments that the Company anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, financial objectives, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues, and earnings, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors which are detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key suppliers for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier), cybersecurity breaches, pandemics and similar major health concerns, unseasonable weather, deterioration of global financial markets, economic conditions worldwide, deterioration of business and economic conditions, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute its business and strategic plans effectively with regard to each of its business units, and risks associated with global product sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution. For additional discussion on risks and uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.