General NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1967 under the laws of the State of Oregon. As used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “NIKE,” and the “Company” refer to NIKE, Inc. and its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, collectively, unless the context indicates otherwise. Our NIKE digital commerce website is located at www.nike.com. On our NIKE corporate website, located at investors.nike.com, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”): our annual report on our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our definitive Proxy Statements are also posted on our corporate website. All such filings on our corporate website are available free of charge. Copies of these filings may also be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 and are available on the SEC's website www.sec.gov ). Also available on our corporate website are the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors, as well as our corporate governance guidelines and code of ethics; copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who submits a request in writing to NIKE Investor Relations, One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453. Our principal business activity is the design, development and worldwide marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. We sell our products to retail accounts, through NIKE-owned retail stores, internet websites, and mobile applications (which we refer to collectively as our “Direct to Consumer” or “DTC” operations), and through a mix of independent distributors and licensees throughout the world. Virtually all of our products are manufactured by independent contractors. Nearly all footwear and apparel products are produced outside the United States, while equipment products are produced both in the United States and abroad. Products We focus our NIKE Brand product offerings in nine key categories: Running, NIKE Basketball, the Jordan Brand, Football (Soccer), Men’s Training, Women’s Training, Action Sports, Sportswear (our sports-inspired lifestyle products) and Golf. Men's Training includes our baseball and American football product offerings. We also market products designed for kids, as well as for other athletic and recreational uses such as cricket, lacrosse, tennis, volleyball, wrestling, walking and outdoor activities. NIKE’s athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for casual or leisure purposes. We place considerable emphasis on innovation and high-quality construction in the development and manufacturing of our products. Sportswear, Running and the Jordan Brand are currently our top-selling footwear categories and we expect them to continue to lead in footwear sales. We also sell sports apparel covering the above-mentioned categories, which feature the same trademarks and are sold predominantly through the same marketing and distribution channels as athletic footwear. Our sports apparel, similar to our athletic footwear products, is designed primarily for athletic use and exemplifies our commitment to innovation and high-quality construction. Sportswear, Men’s Training and Running are currently our top-selling apparel categories and we expect them to continue to lead in apparel sales. We often market footwear, apparel and accessories in “collections” of similar use or by category. We also market apparel with licensed college and professional team and league logos. We sell a line of performance equipment and accessories under the NIKE Brand name, including bags, socks, sport balls, eyewear, timepieces, digital devices, bats, gloves, protective equipment and other equipment designed for sports activities. We also sell small amounts of various plastic products to other manufacturers through our wholly-owned subsidiary, NIKE IHM, Inc., doing business as Air Manufacturing Innovation. Our Jordan Brand designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and accessories predominantly focused on basketball using the Jumpman trademark. Sales and operating results for Jordan Brand products are reported within the respective NIKE Brand geographic operating segments. One of our wholly-owned subsidiary brands, Hurley, headquartered in Costa Mesa, California, designs and distributes a line of action sports and youth lifestyle apparel and accessories under the Hurley trademark. Sales and operating results for Hurley products are included within the NIKE Brand's North America geographic operating segment with sales reported within the Action Sports category. Another of our wholly-owned subsidiary brands, Converse, headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, designs, distributes and licenses casual sneakers, apparel and accessories under the Converse, Chuck Taylor, All Star, One Star, Star Chevron and Jack Purcell trademarks. Operating results of the Converse brand are reported on a stand-alone basis. In addition to the products we sell to our wholesale customers and directly to consumers through our DTC operations, we have also entered into license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture and sell, using NIKE-owned trademarks, certain apparel, digital devices and applications and other equipment designed for sports activities. Sales and Marketing Financial information about geographic and segment operations appears in Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment, as well as other macroeconomic, operating and logistics-related factors. Because NIKE is a consumer products company, the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. We must, therefore, respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, styles and categories and influencing sports and fitness preferences through extensive marketing. Failure to respond in a timely and adequate manner could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. This is a continuing risk. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. We report our NIKE Brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. Each NIKE Brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. For fiscal 2017, our reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand are: North America, Western Europe, Central Eastern Europe, Greater China, Japan and Emerging Markets. In June 2017, we announced a new company alignment designed to allow NIKE to better serve the consumer personally, at scale. As a result of this organizational realignment, beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company's reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand will be: North America; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Greater China; and Asia Pacific and Latin America. Our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations are, and will continue to be, managed within each geographic operating segment. Converse is, and will continue to be, a reportable segment and operates in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. Converse Direct to Consumer operations, including digital commerce, are reported within the Converse operating segment results. United States Market For fiscal 2017 NIKE Brand and Converse sales in the United States accounted for approximately 46% of total revenues, compared to 47% and 46% for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 respectively. We sell our NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the United States, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. In the United States, we utilize NIKE sales offices to solicit such sales. During fiscal 2017 our three largest customers accounted for approximately 23% of sales in the United States. Our Direct to Consumer operations sell NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to consumers through our digital commerce website, www.nike.com and through mobile applications. In addition, our Direct to Consumer operations sell through the following number of retail stores in the United States: U.S. Retail Stores Number NIKE Brand factory stores NIKE Brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) Converse stores (including factory stores) Hurley stores (including factory and employee stores) TOTAL In the United States, NIKE has six significant distribution centers located in Memphis, Tennessee, two of which are owned and four of which are leased. NIKE Brand apparel and equipment products are also shipped from our leased Foothill Ranch, California distribution center. Converse and Hurley products are shipped primarily from leased facilities in Ontario, California, as well as from Memphis, Tennessee. Smaller leased distribution facilities are located in various parts of the United States. We also operate a futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a fixed price. For fiscal 2017 orders under the futures program represented 83% of our U.S. wholesale footwear revenues, compared to 84% for fiscal 2016 and 87% for fiscal 2015 For fiscal 2017 futures orders represented 66% of our U.S. wholesale apparel revenues, compared to 66% for fiscal 2016 and 67% for fiscal 2015 International Markets For fiscal 2017 non-U.S. NIKE Brand and Converse sales accounted for 54% of total revenues, compared to 53% and 54% for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 respectively. We sell our products to retail accounts, through our own Direct to Consumer operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. We sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from distribution centers outside of the United States. In many countries and regions, including Canada, Asia, Europe and some Latin American countries, we have a futures ordering program for retailers similar to the United States futures ordering program described above. During fiscal 2017 NIKE’s three largest customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 12% of total non-U.S. sales. In addition to NIKE and Converse owned digital commerce websites in over 45 countries, our Direct to Consumer business operates the following number of retail stores outside the United States: Non-U.S. Retail Stores Number NIKE Brand factory stores NIKE Brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) Converse stores (including factory stores) TOTAL International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay and Vietnam. Significant Customer No customer accounted for 10% or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2017 Orders Futures orders for NIKE Brand footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November 2017 were $14.7 billion compared to $15.0 billion for the same period last year. NIKE Brand futures orders include (1) orders from external wholesale customers and (2) internal orders from our DTC in-line stores and digital commerce operations which are reflected at prices that are comparable to prices charged to external wholesale customers. The U.S. Dollar futures orders amount is calculated based upon our internal forecast of the actual currency exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. Reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for this period and have become less correlated due to our evolving business model. This is due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing, changes in the mix of orders between futures and orders with shorter lead times, and because the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. A portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales with short lead times, closeout NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, all sales of NIKE Brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our DTC in-line stores and digital commerce operations, and sales from Converse, NIKE Golf and Hurley. Product Research, Design and Development We believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. Technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receive continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort while reducing waste. In addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. Employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. As we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories. Using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. The proliferation of NIKE Air, Lunar, Zoom, Free, Flywire, Dri-Fit, Flyknit, Flyweave, ZoomX, React and NIKE+ technologies throughout our Running, NIKE Basketball, the Jordan Brand, Football (Soccer), Men's Training, Women's Training and Sportswear categories, among others, typifies our dedication to designing innovative products. Manufacturing We are supplied by approximately footwear factories located in countries. The largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately of total fiscal 2017 NIKE Brand footwear production. Virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers who often operate multiple factories. For fiscal 2017 contract factories in Vietnam, China and Indonesia manufactured approximately 46%, 27% and 21% of total NIKE Brand footwear, respectively. We also have manufacturing agreements with independent contract manufacturers in Argentina, India, Brazil, Mexico and Italy to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. For fiscal 2017 five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of NIKE Brand footwear production. We are supplied by approximately apparel factories located in countries. The largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 13% of total fiscal 2017 NIKE Brand apparel production. Virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. For fiscal 2017 contract factories in China, Vietnam and Thailand produced approximately 26%, 16% and 10% of total NIKE Brand apparel, respectively. For fiscal 2017 one apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 43% of NIKE Brand apparel production. The principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make NIKE Air-Sole cushioning components. During fiscal 2017 Air Manufacturing Innovation, with facilities near Beaverton, Oregon and in St. Charles, Missouri, as well as independent contractors in China and Vietnam, were our suppliers of the Air-Sole cushioning components used in footwear. The principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. NIKE’s independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. Most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. NIKE's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. Since 1972, Sojitz Corporation of America (“Sojitz America”), a large Japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. During fiscal 2017 Sojitz America provided financing and purchasing services for NIKE Brand products sold in certain NIKE markets including Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India, South Africa, Thailand and Uruguay, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Approximately 6% of NIKE Brand sales occurred in those countries. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America’s banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. Such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. However, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. Our current agreements with Sojitz America expire on May 31, 2018 and contain a provision allowing us to extend the agreements to May 31, 2019. International Operations and Trade Our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as possible increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. In recent years, uncertain global and regional economic and political conditions have affected international trade and increased protectionist actions around the world. These trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. Companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. Notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for NIKE as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. We monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. We are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. We are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. Current U.S. policy proposals, including potential tariffs or penalties on imported goods, if enacted, may negatively affect U.S. corporations with production activities outside the U.S., including NIKE. There have also been discussions and commentary regarding potential changes to U.S. trade policies. If any of these reforms are implemented, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition with respect to trade restrictions targeting China, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules and (iii) reflects and considers China's domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. Where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. If events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. However, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. NIKE advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. Competition The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, ASICS, Li Ning, lululemon athletica, Puma, Under Armour and V.F. Corporation, among others. The intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. Important aspects of competition in this industry are: Product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value. Consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, public figures, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. Effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and online. We believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. Trademarks and Patents We believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. We pursue available protections of these rights and vigorously protect them against third-party theft and infringement. We utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the Company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our NIKE and Swoosh trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. In addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. We own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. For certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations. We have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. In some instances, we also obtain registered copyrights. We own patents and have a patent license, facilitating our use of “Air” technologies. We file for, own and maintain many U.S. and foreign utility patents, as well as many U.S. and foreign design patents protecting components, technologies, manufacturing techniques, features and industrial design used in various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment and digital devices. These patents expire at various times. We believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing rather than exclusively upon our patent and trade secret positions. However, we have followed a policy of filing patent applications for the United States and select foreign countries on inventions, designs and improvements that we deem valuable. We also continue to vigorously protect our trademarks and patents against third-party infringement. Employees As of we had approximately 74,400 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. Management considers its relationship with employees to be excellent. None of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the Emerging Markets geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. Also, in some countries outside of the United States, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain Company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. In certain European countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. NIKE has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of NIKE, Inc. as of are as follows: Mark G. Parker, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Parker, 61, was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2006 and named Chairman of the Board in June 2016. He has been employed by NIKE since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of product development in 1987, corporate Vice President in 1989, General Manager in 1993, Vice President of Global Footwear in 1998 and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001. Chris L. Abston, Vice President and Corporate Controller Mr. Abston, 54, joined NIKE in 2015 from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., where he served as Vice President, Global Controls and Governance since February 2015. Prior to that he was Vice President and Controller of Walmart International from February 2013 to January 2015, responsible for the oversight of international accounting and reporting, and Vice President and Assistant Controller of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. from May 2011 to January 2013. Before joining Wal-Mart, Mr. Abston spent 25 years in public accounting with Ernst Young LLP, most recently leading its Strategic Growth Markets practice as a Partner in the Dallas office. David J. Ayre, Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources Mr. Ayre, 57, joined NIKE as Vice President, Global Human Resources in 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, he held a number of senior human resource positions with PepsiCo, Inc. since 1990, most recently as head of Talent and Performance Rewards. Andrew Campion, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Campion, 45, joined NIKE in 2007 as Vice President of Global Planning and Development, leading strategic and financial planning. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the NIKE Brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the Company's flagship brand. In 2014, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Strategy, Finance and Investor Relations in addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer of NIKE Brand. Mr. Campion assumed the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2015. Prior to joining NIKE, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at The Walt Disney Company from 1996 to 2007. Trevor A. Edwards, President, NIKE Brand Mr. Edwards, 54, joined NIKE in 1992. He was appointed Marketing Manager, Strategic Accounts for Foot Locker in 1993, Director of Marketing for the Americas in 1995, Director of Marketing for Europe in 1997, Vice President, Marketing for Europe, Middle East and Africa in 1999 and Vice President, U.S. Brand Marketing in 2000. Mr. Edwards was appointed corporate Vice President, Global Brand Management in 2002, Vice President, Global Brand and Category Management in 2006 and President, NIKE Brand in 2013. Prior to NIKE, Mr. Edwards was with the Colgate-Palmolive Company. Hilary K. Krane, Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel Ms. Krane, 53, joined NIKE as Vice President and General Counsel in April 2010. In 2011, her responsibilities expanded and she became Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Affairs. Ms. Krane was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel in 2013. Prior to joining NIKE, Ms. Krane was General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs at Levi Strauss Co. from 2006 to 2010. From 1996 to 2006, she was a Partner and Assistant General Counsel at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. John F. Slusher, Executive Vice President, Global Sports Marketing Mr. Slusher, 48, has been employed by NIKE since 1998 with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. Mr. Slusher was appointed Director of Sports Marketing for Asia Pacific and Americas in 2006, divisional Vice President of Asia Pacific Americas Sports Marketing in September 2007 and Vice President, Global Sports Marketing in November 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Slusher was an attorney at the law firm of O’Melveny Myers from 1995 to 1998. Eric D. Sprunk, Chief Operating Officer Mr. Sprunk, 53, joined NIKE in 1993. He was appointed Finance Director and General Manager of the Americas in 1994, Finance Director for NIKE Europe in 1995, Regional General Manager of NIKE Europe Footwear in 1998 and Vice President General Manager of the Americas in 2000. Mr. Sprunk was appointed Vice President of Global Footwear in 2001, Vice President of Merchandising and Product in 2009 and Chief Operating Officer in 2013. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Sprunk was a certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse from 1987 to 1993. As recently announced by the Company, Mr. Ayre will retire at the end of the calendar year. Succeeding Mr. Ayre as Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources, will be Monique Matheson. Ms. Matheson, 50, has been employed by NIKE since 1998, with primary responsibilities in the human resources function and most recently serving as Vice President, Chief Talent and Diversity Officer.