In evaluating the Company, the risks described below and the matters described in “Forward-Looking Statements” should be considered carefully. Such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. Any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in the Company's securities. The Company faces significant competition in the retail industry and depends on its ability to differentiate itself in retail's ever-changing environment. The Company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. Although the Company is one of the nation’s largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, off-price and discount stores, manufacturers’ outlets, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. Competition may intensify as the Company’s competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. Competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. Any failure by the Company to compete effectively could negatively affect the Company's business and results of operations. As consumers continue to migrate online, the Company faces pressures to not only compete from a price perspective with its competitors, some of whom sell the same products, but also must differentiate itself to stay relevant in retail's ever-changing industry. The Company continues to significantly invest in its omnichannel capabilities in order to provide a seamless shopping experience to its customers between the Company's brick and mortar locations and its online and mobile environments. Insufficient, untimely or misguided investments in this area could significantly impact the Company's profitability and growth and affect the Company's ability to attract new customers as well as maintain its existing ones. The Company’s sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. The fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. The Company’s sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The Company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. Any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. Consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the Company’s control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods, the strength of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. Any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect the Company's business and results of operations. As the Company relies on the ability of its physical retail locations to remain relevant, providing desirable and sought-out shopping experiences is paramount to the Company's financial success. Changes in consumer shopping habits, financial difficulties at other anchor tenants, significant mall vacancy issues, mall violence and new mall developments could each adversely impact the traffic at current retail locations and lead to a decline in the Company's financial condition or performance. The Company’s business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other related risks. Unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. For example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. These same conditions and related risks could affect the success of the Company's credit card program. Following the sale of most of the Company's credit accounts and related receivables to Citibank, the Company shares in the economic performance of the credit card program with CitiBank. Deterioration in economic or political conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. These conditions could result in the Company receiving lower payments under the credit card program. In addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company's effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors, including changes in federal or state tax law, interpretation of existing laws and the ability to defend and support the tax positions taken on historical tax returns. Certain changes in any of these factors could materially impact the effective tax rate and the Company's net income. The Company’s revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. The Company’s business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. A disproportionate amount of the Company's revenues fall in the fourth quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. In addition, the Company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of November and December in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. The Company’s business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company’s stores are located could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the Company’s customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. The Company’s business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of the Company’s inventory and thereby reduce the Company's sales and profitability. In addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the Company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the Company's stores. The Company's business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. To halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as the Company's stores. A regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the Company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the Company's stores. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the Company’s facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s defined benefit plan funding requirements or plan settlement expense could impact the Company’s financial results and cash flow. Significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and benefit payments could affect the funded status of the Company’s plans and could increase future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company’s cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. As of the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $1,232 million for the funded defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension Plan”) and $248 million for the unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the “SERP”). These plans allow eligible retiring employees to receive lump sum distributions of benefits earned. Under applicable accounting rules, if annual lump sum distributions exceed an actuarially determined threshold of the total of the annual service and interest costs, the Company would be required to recognize in the current period of operations a settlement expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss and could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the Company’s financial results and cash flow. The Company’s expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. Unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect the Company’s financial results and cash flow. Healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. Due to uncertainty regarding legislative or regulatory changes to the Affordable Care Act and related legislation, the Company is not able at this time to fully determine the impact that future healthcare reform will have on Company-sponsored medical plans. Inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the Company’s business or financial condition. Changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the Company’s access to this potential source of future liquidity. A decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the Company’s short and long-term debt may negatively impact the Company’s access to the debt capital markets and increase the Company’s cost of borrowing. In addition, the Company’s bank credit agreements require the Company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. The Company’s ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If the Company’s results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the Company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the Company’s debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. The Company’s assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. The Company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the Company. The Company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. The Company’s business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. The Company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. In addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the Company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. Any circumstances that adversely impact the Company’s ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. The Company's business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, the Company's supply network. The Company’s relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the Company’s past success. The Company’s ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. The Company’s procurement of goods and services from outside the United States is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade. The Company sources the majority of its merchandise from manufacturers located outside of the U.S., primarily Asia, and any major changes in tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and liquidity. The Company is also subject to costs and uncertainties associated with efforts to identify and disclose sources of "conflict minerals" used in products that the Company causes to be manufactured and potential sell-through difficulties and reputational damage that may be associated with the inability of the Company to determine that such products are "DRC conflict-free." In addition, the Company’s procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the Company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. All of these factors may affect the Company’s ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the Company’s control and could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations The Company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. If the Company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or consumers' expectations regarding safety, the Company could experience decreased sales, increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the Company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. Reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company depends on the success of its advertising and marketing programs. The Company’s business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. The Company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. There can be no assurance as to the Company’s continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Parties with whom the Company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the Company. The Company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the Company. In some cases, the Company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the Company’s business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. Current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the Company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. If any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the Company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the Company, or otherwise impaired. The Company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the Company’s existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. Any inability on the part of the Company to do so could negatively affect the Company’s cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. A material disruption in the Company’s computer systems could adversely affect the Company’s business or results of operations. The Company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. The Company’s computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the Company’s employees. If the Company’s computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the Company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the Company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations. Any material interruption in the Company’s computer systems could negatively affect its business and results of operations. A breach of information technology systems could adversely affect the Company's reputation, business partner and customer relationships, operations and result in high costs. Through the Company's sales, marketing activities, and use of third-party information, the Company collects and stores certain non-public personal information that customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on websites, or otherwise communicate to the Company. This may include, but is not limited to, phone numbers, driver license numbers, contact preferences, personal information stored on electronic devices, and payment information, including credit and debit card data. The Company also gathers and retains information about employees in the normal course of business. The Company may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of the Company's business. In addition, the Company's online operations depend upon the transmission of confidential information over the Internet, such as information permitting cashless payments. The Company employs safeguards for the protection of such information. These protections may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, burglaries, cyberattack, errors by employees or employees of third-party vendors, or contractors, misappropriation of data by employees, vendors or unaffiliated third-parties, or other irregularities that may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data. Despite instituting controls for the protection of such information, no commercial or government entity can be entirely free of vulnerability to attack or compromise given that the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service change frequently. During the normal course of business, the Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience attempts to compromise information systems security. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to the Company's systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom the Company does business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception to employees, contractors, vendors and temporary staff. The Company may be unable to protect the integrity of systems or company data. Moreover, an alleged or actual unauthorized access or unauthorized disclosure of non-public personal information could: materially damage the Company's reputation and brand, negatively affect customer satisfaction and loyalty, expose the Company to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal investigations or actions, and infringe on proprietary information; and cause the Company to incur substantial costs, including but not limited to, costs associated with remediation of information technology systems, customer protection costs and incentive payments for the maintenance of business relationships, litigation costs, lost revenues resulting from negative changes in consumer shopping patterns, unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. Disruption of global sourcing activities and the Company's own brands' quality concerns could negatively impact brand reputation and earnings Economic and civil unrest in areas of the world where the Company source products, as well as shipping and dockage issues, could adversely impact the availability or cost of the Company’s products, or both. Most of the Company’s goods imported to the U.S. arrive from Asia through ports located on the U.S. west coast and are, therefore, subject to potential disruption due to labor unrest, security issues or natural disasters affecting any or all of these ports. In addition, in recent years, the Company has substantially increased the number and types of merchandise that are sold under the Company’s proprietary brands. While the Company has focused on the quality of its proprietary branded products, the Company relies on third-parties to manufacture these products. Such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of the Company’s globally sourced products may vary from the Company’s expectations and standards, such products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require the Company to recall these products, or such products may infringe upon the intellectual propriety rights of other third-parties. Moreover, as the Company seeks indemnities from manufactures of these products, the uncertainty of realization of any such indemnity and the lack of understanding of U.S. product liability laws in certain foreign jurisdictions make it more likely that the Company may have to respond to claims or complaints from customers. Litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both its core business operations and its credit card and other ancillary operations (including the Credit Card Act of 2009 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”)). Recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase the Company's compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of its credit card and other operations. The Company is also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. Although the Company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the Company's knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, the Company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect the Company's business and results of operations. In addition, the Company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. Adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company may not be able to successfully execute its real estate strategy. The Company continues to explore opportunities to monetize its real estate portfolio and is focused on opportunities for sale transactions and, in some cases, redevelopment of assets. This strategy is multi-pronged and may include transactions, strategic alliances or other arrangements with mall developers or unrelated third-parties. Due to the cyclical nature of real estate markets, the performance of the Company's real estate strategy is inherently volatile and could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. Factors beyond the Company’s control could affect the Company’s stock price. The Company’s stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors may include: general economic, stock, credit and real estate market conditions; risks relating to the Company’s business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the Company or its competitors; variations in the Company’s quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the Company’s common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the Company’s common stock relative to other investment alternatives. In addition, the Company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. If the analysts that regularly follow the Company’s stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the Company’s stock price could decline. Also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock.