Overview We are a global retailer offering apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, and children under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Athleta, and Intermix brands. We have Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, Italy, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and beginning in October 2015, Mexico. We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy stores throughout Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. Our products are also available to customers online through Company-owned websites and through the use of third parties that provide logistics and fulfillment services. In addition to operating in the specialty, outlet, online, and franchise channels, we also use our omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores to further enhance our shopping experience for our customers. Our omni-channel services, including order-in-store, reserve-in-store, find-in-store, and ship-from-store, as well as enhanced mobile experiences, are tailored uniquely across our portfolio of brands. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are designed and manufactured by branded third parties, primarily at our Intermix brand. We identify our operating segments according to how our business activities are managed and evaluated. As of our operating segments included Gap Global, Old Navy Global, Banana Republic Global, Athleta, and Intermix. We have determined that each of our operating segments share similar economic and other qualitative characteristics, and therefore the results of our operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment. In May 2016, we announced measures to better align talent and financial resources against our most important priorities to position the Company for improved business performance and long-term success. Our aim is to capture additional market share in our home market, North America, where we have our largest structural advantages, and to focus on international regions with the greatest potential. As part of this effort, we closed the entire fleet of 53 Old Navy stores in Japan during fiscal 2016. Japan remains an important market for the Company's portfolio, with a continued strong presence of more than 200 Gap and Banana Republic stores. Including the Old Navy closures in Japan, the Company closed stores in total related to these measures in fiscal 2016 We also created a more efficient operating model, enabling us to more fully leverage our scale. For example, we centralized or consolidated several brand and corporate functions, allowing us to simplify the organization and operate more efficiently. The Company estimates that its actions will result in annualized pre-tax savings of about $275 million. In connection with the decision to close stores and streamline the Company's operations, the Company incurred $197 million in restructuring costs during fiscal 2016 on a pre-tax basis. The charges primarily include lease termination fees, employee-related costs, and store asset impairment. Certain of these costs incurred in foreign subsidiaries did not result in a tax benefit. On August 29, 2016, a fire occurred in one of the buildings at a Company-owned distribution center campus in Fishkill, New York. Following the fire, the Company immediately activated contingency plans to help mitigate the overall impact to the business. In October 2016, the Company completed construction of a temporary fulfillment site at the Fishkill campus, which was in place to process orders by peak holiday season, and plans to rebuild a permanent building are currently underway. For fiscal 2016, the Company incurred fire-related costs which included $86 million in inventory at cost, $12 million in property, plant, and equipment at net book value, and $35 million in other fire-related costs. In January of fiscal 2016, the Company agreed upon a partial settlement of $159 million related to the inventory and recorded a gain of $73 million representing the excess over the loss on inventory. Based on the provisions of the Company’s insurance policies, the Company has determined that recovery of certain remaining fire-related costs incurred during fiscal 2016 is probable, and an insurance receivable, net of advance insurance proceeds received, has been recorded as of January 28, 2017 to offset the fire-related costs. The company expects to continue to record additional costs and recoveries until the insurance claim is fully settled. Fiscal 2015 results were impacted by a series of strategic actions to position Gap brand for improved business performance in the future, including rightsizing the Gap brand store fleet primarily in North America, streamlining the brand's headquarter workforce, and developing a clear, on-brand product aesthetic framework to strengthen the Gap brand to compete more successfully on the global stage. During fiscal 2015, the Company completed the closure of about 150 Gap global specialty stores related to the strategic actions. During fiscal 2015, the Company incurred $132 million of charges in connection with the strategic actions, primarily consisting of impairment of store assets related to underperforming stores, lease termination fees and lease losses, employee related expenses, and impairment of inventory that did not meet brand standards. Financial results for fiscal 2016 are as follows: Net sales for fiscal 2016 decreased percent to $15.5 billion compared with $15.8 billion for fiscal 2015 Comparable sales ("Comp Sales") for fiscal 2016 decreased percent. Gross profit for fiscal 2016 was $5.6 billion compared with $5.7 billion for fiscal 2015 Gross margin for fiscal 2016 was 36.3 percent compared with 36.2 percent for fiscal 2015 Operating margin for fiscal 2016 was 7.7 percent compared with 9.6 percent for fiscal 2015 Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percentage of net sales. Net income for fiscal 2016 was $676 million compared with $920 million for fiscal 2015 and diluted earnings per share was $1.69 for fiscal 2016 compared with $2.23 for fiscal 2015 Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2016 included about a $0.41 impact of restructuring costs incurred during fiscal 2016 a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $0.18 related to Intermix, an $0.11 benefit from the gain from insurance proceeds related to the fire which occurred at the Company's Fishkill distribution center campus, and a favorable income tax impact of a legal structure realignment of about $0.15. Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2015 included a $0.20 impact of costs related to strategic actions incurred during fiscal 2015. During fiscal 2016 we distributed $367 million to shareholders through dividends. Our business priorities in include: offering product that is consistently brand-appropriate and on-trend with high customer acceptance, with a focus on expanding our advantage in the most promising categories; delivering meaningful product innovation; creating a unique and differentiated customer experience that builds loyalty, with focus on both the physical and digital expressions of our brands; and attracting and retaining great talent in our businesses and functions. In fiscal 2017, we are focused on investing strategically in the business while also maintaining operating expense discipline. One of our primary objectives is to continue transforming our product to market process, with the development of an advantaged operating platform. To enable this, we have several product, supply chain, and IT initiatives underway. Further, we expect to continue our investment in customer experience, both in stores and online, to drive higher customer engagement and loyalty, resulting in market share gains. Finally, we will continue to invest in strengthening brand awareness and customer acquisition. Fiscal 2017 will consist of 53 weeks versus 52 weeks in fiscal 2016. Results of Operations Net Sales See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for net sales by brand and region. Comparable Sales The percentage change in Comp Sales by global brand and for total Company, as compared with the preceding year, is as follows: Fiscal Year Gap Global Old Navy Global Banana Republic Global (10 The Gap, Inc. Comp Sales include the results of Company-operated stores and sales through online channels in those countries where we have existing comparable store sales. The calculation of The Gap, Inc. Comp Sales includes the results of Athleta and Intermix but excludes the results of our franchise business. A store is included in the Comp Sales calculations when it has been open and operated by the Company for at least one year and the selling square footage has not changed by 15 percent or more within the past year. A store is included in the Comp Sales calculations on the first day it has comparable prior year sales. Stores in which the selling square footage has changed by 15 percent or more as a result of a remodel, expansion, or reduction are excluded from the Comp Sales calculations until the first day they have comparable prior year sales. A store is considered non-comparable (“Non-comp”) when it has been open and operated by the Company for less than one year or has changed its selling square footage by 15 percent or more within the past year. A store is considered “Closed” if it is temporarily closed for three or more full consecutive days or it is permanently closed. When a temporarily closed store reopens, the store will be placed in the Comp/Non-comp status it was in prior to its closure. If a store was in Closed status for three or more days in the prior year, the store will be in Non-comp status for the same days the following year. Current year foreign exchange rates are applied to both current year and prior year Comp Sales to achieve a consistent basis for comparison. Store Count and Square Footage Information Net sales per average square foot is as follows: Fiscal Year Net sales per average square foot (1) __________ Excludes net sales associated with our online and franchise businesses. Store count, openings, closings, and square footage for our stores are as follows: Fiscal 2016 Number of Store Locations Number of Stores Opened Number of Stores Closed Number of Store Locations Square Footage (in millions) Gap North America 8.8 Gap Asia 3.0 Gap Europe 1.4 Old Navy North America 1,030 1,043 17.4 Old Navy Asia 0.2 Banana Republic North America 5.0 Banana Republic Asia 0.2 Banana Republic Europe Athleta North America 0.6 Intermix North America 0.1 Company-operated stores total 3,275 3,200 36.7 Franchise N/A Total 3,721 3,659 36.7 Decrease over prior year Fiscal 2015 Number of Store Locations Number of Stores Opened Number of Stores Closed Number of Store Locations Square Footage (in millions) Gap North America 9.1 Gap Asia 3.0 Gap Europe 1.5 Old Navy North America 1,013 1,030 17.3 Old Navy Asia 1.0 Banana Republic North America 5.1 Banana Republic Asia 0.2 Banana Republic Europe 0.1 Athleta North America 0.5 Piperlime North America Intermix North America 0.1 Company-operated stores total 3,280 3,275 37.9 Franchise N/A Total 3,709 3,721 37.9 Increase (decrease) over prior year 0.3 Gap and Banana Republic outlet and factory stores are reflected in each of the respective brands. In fiscal 2017 we expect net openings of about Company-operated store locations, primarily for Athleta and Old Navy. Net Sales Discussion Our net sales for fiscal 2016 decreased $281 million or percent compared with fiscal 2015 primarily due to a decrease in net sales at Gap and Banana Republic, partially offset by an increase in net sales at Old Navy and Athleta. The translation of net sales in foreign currencies to U.S. dollars had an unfavorable impact of about $20 million for fiscal 2016 and is calculated by translating net sales for fiscal 2015 at exchange rates applicable during fiscal 2016 Our net sales for fiscal 2015 decreased $638 million, or percent, compared with fiscal 2014 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of about $363 million and a decrease in net sales primarily at Gap and Banana Republic; partially offset by an increase in net sales at Old Navy. The unfavorable impact of foreign exchange was primarily driven by the weakening of the Canadian dollar and Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar. The foreign exchange impact is the translation impact if net sales for fiscal 2014 were translated at exchange rates applicable during fiscal 2015 Cost of Goods Sold and Occupancy Expenses ($ in millions) Fiscal Year Cost of goods sold and occupancy expenses 9,876 10,077 10,146 Gross profit 5,640 5,720 6,289 Cost of goods sold and occupancy expenses as a percentage of net sales 63.7 63.8 61.7 Gross margin 36.3 36.2 38.3 Cost of goods sold and occupancy expenses decreased 0.1 percentage points in fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2015 Cost of goods sold decreased 0.3 percentage points as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2015 primarily driven by higher selling at regular prices at all global brands and improved product acceptance resulting in improved margins at Old Navy. This was offset by a negative foreign exchange impact for our foreign subsidiaries as our merchandise purchases are primarily in U.S. dollars. Occupancy expenses increased 0.2 percentage points in fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2015 primarily driven by the decrease in net sales without a corresponding decrease in occupancy expenses. Cost of goods sold and occupancy expenses increased 2.1 percentage points in fiscal 2015 compared with fiscal 2014 Cost of goods sold increased 1.3 percent as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2015 compared with fiscal 2014, primarily driven by increased markdown activities, inventory impairment charges primarily at Gap brand related to the strategic actions, and incremental shipping costs partially due to the U.S. West Coast port congestion. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2015 for our foreign subsidiaries was also negatively impacted by foreign exchange as our merchandise purchases are primarily in U.S. dollars. Occupancy expenses increased 0.8 percentage points in fiscal 2015 compared with fiscal 2014, primarily driven by the decrease in net sales without a corresponding decrease in occupancy expenses. In fiscal 2017 we expect that gross margins for our foreign subsidiaries will continue to be negatively impacted by the continuing depreciation of certain foreign currencies as our merchandise purchases are primarily in U.S. dollars. Operating Expenses and Operating Margin ($ in millions) Fiscal Year Operating expenses 4,449 4,196 4,206 Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 28.7 26.6 25.6 Operating margin 7.7 9.6 12.7 Operating expenses increased $253 million or 2.1 percent as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2015 primarily due to the following: restructuring costs of $197 million in fiscal 2016 compared with the costs related to strategic actions of $98 million in fiscal 2015; store asset impairment charges of $53 million unrelated to restructuring activities in fiscal 2016 compared with store asset impairment charges of $16 million unrelated to the strategic actions in fiscal 2015; a goodwill impairment charge related to Intermix in fiscal 2016 of $71 million; and an increase in bonus and marketing expense; partially offset by a gain from insurance proceeds of $73 million related to the fire that occurred in one of the buildings at a Company-owned distribution center campus in Fishkill, New York, representing the excess over the loss on inventory; and higher income from revenue sharing payments from Synchrony. Operating expenses decreased $10 million, but increased 1.0 percent as a percentage of net sales, in fiscal 2015 compared with fiscal 2014 primarily due to the following: a favorable foreign exchange translation impact of about $85 million, calculated as if operating expenses for fiscal 2014 were translated at exchange rates applicable during fiscal 2015; and a decrease in bonus and marketing expense; partially offset by costs related to the strategic actions of $98 million; and the gain on sale of a building of $39 million recognized in fiscal 2014. Interest Expense ($ in millions) Fiscal Year Interest expense Interest expense for fiscal 2016 and 2014 primarily includes interest on overall borrowings and obligations mainly related to our $1.25 billion long-term debt. Interest expense for fiscal 2015 includes $74 million of interest on overall borrowings and obligations mainly related to our $1.25 billion long-term debt, offset by a reversal of $15 million of interest expense primarily resulting from a favorable foreign tax ruling and actions of foreign tax authorities related to transfer pricing matters in fiscal 2015. Income Taxes ($ in millions) Fiscal Year Income taxes Effective tax rate 39.9 37.5 37.3 The increase in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2015 was primarily due to the impact of restructuring costs incurred in certain foreign subsidiaries for which the Company was not able to recognize any tax benefit and the impact of a non-deductible goodwill impairment charge related to Intermix. The increase was partially offset by the recognition of certain foreign tax benefits associated with a legal structure realignment. The increase in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2015 compared with fiscal 2014 was primarily due to the recognition of foreign tax credits upon a distribution of certain foreign earnings that occurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2014, partially offset by the impact of the indefinite reinvestment of certain fiscal 2015 foreign earnings, which will be used to fund our international businesses and their growth. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our largest source of cash flows is cash collections from the sale of our merchandise. Our primary uses of cash include merchandise inventory purchases, occupancy costs, personnel-related expenses, purchases of property and equipment, and payment of taxes. In addition, we may have dividend payments, debt repayments, and share repurchases. We consider the following to be measures of our liquidity and capital resources: ($ in millions) January 28, January 30, January 31, Cash and cash equivalents 1,783 1,370 1,515 Debt 1,313 1,731 1,353 Working capital 1,862 1,450 2,083 Current ratio 1.76:1 1.57:1 1.93:1 As of the majority of our cash and cash equivalents was held in the United States and is generally accessible without any limitations. In October 2015, the Company entered into a $400 million unsecured term loan (the "Term Loan"), which was fully repaid in January 2017. In January 2014, the Company entered into a 15 billion Japanese yen, four -year, unsecured term loan ("Japan Term Loan") due January 2018 A final repayment of 7.5 billion Japanese yen $65 million as of is payable on January 15, 2018 and is classified as current maturities of debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We believe that current cash balances and cash flows from our operations will be sufficient to support our business operations, including growth initiatives, planned capital expenditures, and repayment of debt, for the next 12 months and beyond. We are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $500 million revolving credit facility or other available market instruments. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2016 increased $125 million compared with fiscal 2015 primarily due to the following: Net income a decrease of $244 million in net income. Non-cash items an increase of $246 million related to non-cash and other items primarily due to the lower gain reclassified into income related to our derivative financial instruments in fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2015, a goodwill impairment charge related to Intermix of $71 million during fiscal 2016, and an increase of $53 million related to store asset impairment; partially offset by a decrease of $155 million related to deferred income taxes driven by fluctuations in book versus tax temporary differences for bonus accruals, depreciation, and share-based compensation. Changes in operating assets and liabilities an increase of $193 million related to accounts payable primarily due to the timing of merchandise and lease payments; an increase of $117 million related to accrued expenses and other current liabilities primarily due to bonus accruals; and an increase of $52 million related to merchandise inventory primarily due to the volume and timing of receipts; partially offset by a decrease of $79 million related to other current assets and other long-term assets in part due to the insurance claim receivable from the fire of the company-owned distribution center in Fishkill, New York on August 29, 2016. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2015 decreased $535 million compared with fiscal 2014, primarily due to the following: Net income a decrease of $342 million in net income. Changes in operating assets and liabilities a decrease of $107 million related to other current assets and other long-term assets primarily due to the change in timing of payments received related to our credit card programs, which resulted in increased cash inflow in fiscal 2014; and a decrease of $150 million related to lease incentives and other long-term liabilities primarily due to the receipt of an upfront payment in fiscal 2014 related to the amendment of our credit card program agreement with Synchrony, which is being amortized into income over the term of the contract; partially offset by an increase of $63 million related to income taxes payable, net of prepaid and other tax-related items, primarily due to timing of payments. We fund inventory expenditures during normal and peak periods through cash flows from operating activities and available cash. Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking during the end-of-year holiday period. The seasonality of our operations may lead to significant fluctuations in certain asset and liability accounts between fiscal year-end and subsequent interim periods. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2016 decreased $201 million compared with fiscal 2015 primarily due to less property and equipment purchases. Net cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2015 increased $134 million compared with fiscal 2014, primarily due to $121 million of proceeds from the sale of a building owned but no longer occupied by the Company in fiscal 2014 and $12 million more property and equipment purchases in fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2016 cash used for purchases of property and equipment was 524 million primarily related to investments in stores, information technology, and supply chain. In fiscal 2017 we expect cash spending for purchases of property and equipment to be about $825 million which includes an estimated $200 million related to rebuilding of the Company's Fishkill, New York distribution center campus, which the Company expects will be covered by insurance proceeds. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during fiscal 2016 decreased $213 million compared with fiscal 2015 primarily due to the following: no repurchases of common stock in fiscal 2016 compared with $1 billion cash outflow related to repurchases of common stock in fiscal 2015; partially offset by no debt issuances in fiscal 2016 compared with the issuance of $400 million in short-term debt in fiscal 2015; and the repayment of the $400 million short-term debt in fiscal 2016. Net cash used for financing activities during fiscal 2015 decreased $517 million compared with fiscal 2014, primarily due to the following: $400 million proceeds from the issuance of short-term debt in fiscal 2015; and $164 million less repurchases of common stock; partially offset by $4 million net cash out flows for fiscal 2015 compared with $38 million net cash inflows for fiscal 2014 related to issuance under share-based compensation plans and withholding tax payments related to vesting of stock units. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash a company has available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures, as we require regular capital expenditures to build and maintain stores and purchase new equipment and invest in technology to improve our business. We use this metric internally, as we believe our sustained ability to generate free cash flow is an important driver of value creation. However, this non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to supersede or replace our GAAP result. The following table reconciles free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, from net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP financial measure. Fiscal Year ($ in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities 1,719 1,594 2,129 Less: Purchases of property and equipment (524 (726 (714 Free cash flow 1,195 1,415 Debt and Credit Facilities Certain financial information about the Company's debt and credit facilities is set forth under the headings "Debt" and "Credit Facilities" in Notes and respectively, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item of this Dividend Policy In determining whether and at what level to declare a dividend, we consider a number of factors including sustainability, operating performance, liquidity, and market conditions. We paid an annual dividend of $0.92 per share in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 We plan to pay an annual dividend of $0.92 per share in fiscal 2017 Share Repurchases Certain financial information about the Company's share repurchases is set forth under the heading "Share Repurchases" in Note of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item of this In fiscal 2017, the Company intends to re-initiate share repurchases under its existing $1 billion share repurchase authorization. Contractual Cash Obligations We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. The following table provides summary information concerning our future contractual obligations as of These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain of these contractual obligations are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of while others are disclosed as future obligations. Payments Due by Period ($ in millions) Less than Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than Years Total Debt (1) 1,250 1,315 Interest payments on debt Operating leases (2) 1,128 2,091 1,449 1,874 6,542 Purchase obligations and commitments (3) 4,098 4,248 Total contractual cash obligations 5,366 2,329 2,867 1,879 12,441 __________ Represents principal maturities, excluding interest. See Note of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion on debt. Excludes maintenance, insurance, taxes, and contingent rent obligations. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of our operating leases. Represents estimated open purchase orders to purchase inventory as well as commitments for products and services used in the normal course of business. There is $70 million of long-term liabilities recorded in lease incentives and other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that is excluded from the table above as the amount relates to uncertain tax positions and deferred compensation, and we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. Commercial Commitments We have commercial commitments, not reflected in the table above, that were incurred in the normal course of business to support our operations, including standby letters of credit of $16 million surety bonds of $44 million and bank guarantees of $18 million outstanding (of which $12 million was issued under the unsecured revolving credit facilities for our operations in foreign locations) as of Other Cash Obligations Not Reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements) The majority of our contractual obligations relate to operating leases for our stores. Future minimum lease payments represent commitments under non-cancelable operating leases and are disclosed in the table above with additional information provided under the heading "Leases" in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item of this Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") requires management to adopt accounting policies and make significant judgments and estimates to develop amounts reflected and disclosed in the financial statements. In many cases, there are alternative policies or estimation techniques that could be used. We maintain a thorough process to review the application of our accounting policies and to evaluate the appropriateness of the many estimates that are required to prepare the financial statements of a large, global corporation. However, even under optimal circumstances, estimates routinely require adjustment based on changing circumstances and the receipt of new or better information. Our significant accounting policies can be found under the heading "Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Note of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item of this The policies and estimates discussed below include the financial statement elements that are either judgmental or involve the selection or application of alternative accounting policies and are material to our financial statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors, which has reviewed our disclosure relating to critical accounting policies and estimates in this annual report on Merchandise Inventory We value inventory at the lower of cost or market (“LCM”), with cost determined using the weighted-average cost method and market value determined based on the estimated net realizable value. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors), and we primarily use promotions and markdowns to clear merchandise. We record an adjustment to inventory when future estimated selling price is less than cost. Our LCM adjustment calculation requires management to make assumptions to estimate the selling price and amount of slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments subject to markdowns, which is dependent upon factors such as historical trends with similar merchandise, inventory aging, forecasted consumer demand, and the promotional environment. In addition, we estimate and accrue shortage for the period between the last physical count and the balance sheet date. Our shortage estimate can be affected by changes in merchandise mix and changes in actual shortage trends. Historically, actual shortage has not differed materially from our estimates. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our LCM or inventory shortage adjustments. However, if estimates regarding consumer demand are inaccurate or actual physical inventory shortage differs significantly from our estimate, our operating results could be affected. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to calculate our LCM or inventory shortage adjustments in the past three fiscal years. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill, and Intangible Assets We review the carrying amount of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Events that result in an impairment review include a significant decrease in the operating performance of the long-lived asset, or the decision to close a store, corporate facility, or distribution center. Long-lived assets are considered impaired if the carrying amount exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the asset or asset group. For impaired assets, we recognize a loss equal to the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or asset group and its estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of the asset or asset group is based on estimated discounted future cash flows of the asset or asset group using a discount rate commensurate with the related risk. The asset group is defined as the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available and largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. The asset group for our retail stores is reviewed for impairment primarily at the store level. Our estimate of future cash flows requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment, including forecasting future sales and expenses and estimating useful lives of the assets. These estimates can be affected by factors such as future store results, real estate demand, and economic conditions that can be difficult to predict. We have not made any material changes in the methodology to assess and calculate impairment of long-lived assets in the past three fiscal years. We recorded a charge for the impairment of long-lived assets of $107 million $54 million and $10 million for fiscal 2016 and respectively. We also review the carrying amount of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Events that result in an impairment review include significant changes in the business climate, declines in our operating results, or an expectation that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In connection with the acquisitions of Athleta in September 2008 and Intermix in December 2012, we allocated $99 million and $81 million of the respective purchase prices to goodwill. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment using the applicable reporting unit, which is an operating segment or a business unit one level below that operating segment for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management. We have deemed Athleta and Intermix to be the reporting units at which goodwill is tested for Athleta and Intermix, respectively. We review goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the two-step test is performed to identify potential goodwill impairment. If it is determined that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is unnecessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we determined that the fair value of the reporting unit for Athleta significantly exceeded its carrying amount as of the date of our annual impairment review and therefore, we did not recognize any impairment charges for Athleta. Based on certain circumstances, we may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test. The first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. The second step includes hypothetically valuing all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Then, the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill is compared to the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, we recognize an impairment loss in an amount equal to the excess, not to exceed the carrying amount. At the end of each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2016, given the information available at the time of those assessments, we determined that there were no events or circumstances that indicated any impairment for goodwill related to Intermix. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, management updated the fiscal 2017 budget and financial projections beyond fiscal 2017 for Intermix. There were several factors that caused the financial projections and estimates to significantly decrease from the previous estimates, which included: poor fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 holiday performance at Intermix stores, the decision to reduce expected future store openings, the approval of additional store closures in fiscal 2017, and the budgeting of additional headcount required to support increased focus on the online business. These factors arising during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 had a significant and negative impact on the estimated fair value of the Intermix reporting unit, and we have determined that the Intermix reporting unit’s carrying value exceeded its fair value as of the date of our annual impairment review. As such, we performed the second step of the goodwill impairment test which resulted in an impairment charge of $71 million for goodwill related to Intermix in fiscal 2016. This impairment charge reduced the $81 million of purchase price allocated to goodwill in connection with the acquisition of Intermix in December 2012 to $10 million as of January 28, 2017. We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in fiscal 2015. As of January 28, 2017, the aggregate carrying value of trade names was $95 million, which primarily consisted of $54 million and $38 million related to Athleta and Intermix, respectively. A trade name is considered impaired if the carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value. If a trade name is considered impaired, we recognize a loss equal to the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the trade name. The fair value of the trade names is determined using the relief from royalty method. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 we completed our annual impairment review of the trade names and we did not recognize any impairment charges. We determined that the fair value of the Athleta trade name significantly exceeded its carrying amount as of the date of our annual impairment review. The fair value of the Intermix trade name exceeded its carrying amount by less than 10 percent as of the date of our annual impairment review. These analyses require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment, including forecasting future sales and expenses, and selecting appropriate discount rates and royalty rates, which can be affected by economic conditions and other factors that can be difficult to predict. If actual store and online results and brand performance, real estate market conditions, and economic conditions including interest rates are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used in our calculations, we may be exposed to additional impairment losses that could be material. Revenue Recognition While revenue recognition for the Company does not involve significant judgment, it represents an important accounting policy. We recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold at the time the products are received by the customers. For sales transacted at stores, revenue is recognized when the customer receives and pays for the merchandise at the register. For sales where we ship the merchandise to the customer from a distribution center or store, revenue is recognized at the time we estimate the customer receives the merchandise. We sell merchandise to franchisees under multi-year franchise agreements. We recognize revenue from sales to franchisees at the time merchandise ownership is transferred to the franchisee, which generally occurs when the merchandise reaches the franchisee’s predesignated turnover point. We also receive royalties from franchisees primarily based on a percentage of the total merchandise purchased by the franchisee, net of any refunds or credits due them. Royalty revenue is recognized primarily when merchandise ownership is transferred to the franchisee. We record an allowance for estimated returns based on our historical return patterns and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our sales return allowance. However, if the actual rate of sales returns increases significantly, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to estimate future sales returns in the past three fiscal years. See Note of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item of this for recent accounting pronouncements related to revenue recognition and expected impact from the adoption of new standards. Unredeemed Gift Cards, Gift Certificates, and Credit Vouchers Upon issuance of a gift card, gift certificate, or credit voucher, a liability is established for its cash value. The liability is relieved and net sales are recorded upon redemption by the customer. Over time, some portion of these instruments is not redeemed (“breakage”). Based on historical redemption patterns, we determine breakage income for gift cards, gift certificates, and credit vouchers when we can determine the portion of the liability where redemption is remote, which is three years after issuance. Breakage income, which has been historically immaterial, is recorded in other income which is a component of operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. When breakage income is recorded, a liability is recognized for any legal obligation to remit the unredeemed portion to relevant jurisdictions. Substantially all of our gift cards, gift certificates, and credit vouchers have no expiration dates. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our breakage income. However, if the actual pattern of redemption for gift cards, gift certificates, and credit vouchers changes significantly, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to estimate breakage in the past three fiscal years. See Note of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item of this for recent accounting pronouncements related to revenue recognition and expected impact on recognition of breakage income from the adoption of new standards. Income Taxes We record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of such deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment, including forecasting future income, taxable income, and the mix of income or losses in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may also be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of income or losses, changes in the expected outcome of audits, or changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance. At any point in time, many tax years are subject to or in the process of being audited by various taxing authorities. To the extent our estimates of settlements change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. Our income tax expense includes changes in our estimated liability for exposures associated with our various tax filing positions. Determining the income tax expense for these potential assessments requires management to make assumptions that are subject to factors such as proposed assessments by tax authorities, changes in facts and circumstances, issuance of new regulations, and resolution of tax audits. We believe the judgments and estimates discussed above are reasonable. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See "Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Note of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item of this for recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our Consolidated Financial Statements.