General Target Corporation (Target, the Corporation or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. We offer our customers, referred to as "guests," everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated merchandise at discounted prices. Our ability to deliver a preferred shopping experience to our guests is supported by our supply chain and technology, our devotion to innovation, our loyalty offerings such as REDcard Rewards and Cartwheel, and our disciplined approach to managing our business and investing in future growth. We operate as a single segment designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly in stores or through our digital channels. Since 1946, we have given percent of our profit to communities. We perform account servicing and primary marketing functions for, and earn a substantial portion of the profits generated by, the Target Credit Card and Target MasterCard consumer receivables portfolio, which is underwritten, funded, and owned by TD Bank Group (TD). Refer to Note of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (the Financial Statements) for more information on the credit card profit sharing. Prior to January 15, 2015, we operated a Canadian Segment. On January 15, 2015, we announced our exit from the Canadian market, and Target Canada Co. and certain other wholly owned subsidiaries of Target filed for protection (the Filing) in Canada under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act (CCAA) with the Ontario Superior Court of Justice in Toronto (the Court). Following the Filing, we no longer consolidate our former Canadian retail operation. Canadian financial results prior to the Filing are included in our financial statements and classified within discontinued operations. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Note of the Financial Statements for more information. Prior to December 16, 2015, we operated 1,672 pharmacies and 79 clinics in our stores. On December 16, 2015, we sold our pharmacy and clinic businesses (Pharmacy Transaction) to CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (CVS). CVS now operates the pharmacy and clinic businesses in our stores under a perpetual operating agreement, subject to termination in limited circumstances. See MD&A and Note of the Financial Statements for more information. Discontinued operations in this Annual Report on refers only to our discontinued Canadian operations. Financial Highlights For information on key financial highlights and segment financial information, see the items referenced in Item 6, Selected Financial Data, MD&A, and Note of the Financial Statements. Seasonality A larger share of annual revenues and earnings traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter because it includes the peak holiday sales period of November and December. Merchandise We sell a wide assortment of general merchandise and food. The majority of our general merchandise stores offer an edited food assortment, including perishables, dry grocery, dairy, and frozen items. Nearly all of our stores larger than 170,000 square feet offer a full line of food items comparable to traditional supermarkets. Our small, flexible format stores, generally smaller than 50,000 square feet, offer curated general merchandise and food assortments. Our digital channels include a wide assortment of general merchandise, including many items found in our stores, along with a complementary assortment such as additional sizes and colors sold only online. A significant portion of our sales is from national brand merchandise. Approximately one-third of sales related to our owned and exclusive brands, including but not limited to the following: Owned Brands Archer Farms® Market Pantry® Sutton Dodge® Art Class™ Merona® Threshold™ Ava Viv® Pillowfort™ up up® Boots Barkley® Room Essentials® Wine Cube® Cat Jack™ Simply Balanced™ Wondershop™ Embark® Smith Hawken® Xhilaration® Gilligan O'Malley® Sonia Kashuk® Knox Rose™ Spritz™ Exclusive Brands C9 by Champion® Hand Made Modern® Mossimo® DENIZEN® from Levi's® Just One You® made by carter's® Nate Berkus for Target Fieldcrest® Kid Made Modern® Oh Joy!® for Target Genuine Kids® from OshKosh® Liz Lange® for Target We also sell merchandise through periodic exclusive design and creative partnerships and generate revenue from in-store amenities such as Target Café and Target Photo, and leased or licensed departments such as Target Optical, Starbucks, and other food service offerings. The majority of our stores also have a CVS pharmacy from which we will generate ongoing annual, inflation adjusted occupancy-related income (see MD&A and Note of the Financial Statements for more information). Distribution The vast majority of merchandise is distributed to our stores through our network of 40 distribution centers. Common carriers ship general merchandise to and from our distribution centers. Vendors or third party distributors ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores. Merchandise sold through our digital channels is distributed to our guests via common carriers from our distribution centers, from vendors or third party distributors, from our stores or through guest pick-up at our stores. Using our stores as fulfillment points allows improved product availability and delivery times and also reduces shipping costs. Employees At we employed approximately 323,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees, referred to as "team members." During the holiday sales period our employment levels peaked at approximately 373,000 team members. We offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our team members. Eligibility for and the level of benefits vary depending on team members' full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire, and/or length of service. Company-paid benefits include a 401(k) plan, medical and dental plans, disability insurance, paid vacation, tuition reimbursement, various team member assistance programs, life insurance, a pension plan (closed to new participants, with limited exceptions), and merchandise and other discounts. We believe our team member relations are good. Working Capital Our working capital needs are greater in the months leading up to the holiday sales period, which we typically finance with cash flow provided by operations and short-term borrowings. Additional details are provided in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in MD&A. Effective inventory management is key to our ongoing success, and we use various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We achieve effective inventory management by staying in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and apparel items to minimize markdowns. Competition We compete with traditional and internet retailers, including off-price general merchandise retailers, apparel retailers, wholesale clubs, category specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets, and other forms of retail commerce. Our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers and provide a compelling value proposition largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. Intellectual Property Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, SuperTarget and our "Bullseye Design," have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain and preserve intellectual property protection for our owned brands. Geographic Information Virtually all of our revenues are generated within the United States. The vast majority of our long-lived assets are located within the United States. Available Information Our Annual Report on quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge at investors.target.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Conduct Guide, Corporate Social Responsibility Report, and the charters for the committees of our Board of Directors are also available free of charge in print upon request or at investors.target.com.