The discussion in this Item should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The discussion in this Item contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” Overview The Company is an omnichannel retail organization operating stores, websites and mobile applications under three brands (Macy's, Bloomingdale's and Bluemercury) that sell a wide range of merchandise, including apparel and accessories (men's, women's and children's), cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods. The Company operates 829 stores in 45 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico. As of the Company's operations were conducted through Macy's, Bloomingdale's, Bloomingdale’s The Outlet, Macy’s Backstage, Bluemercury and Macy’s China Limited which are aggregated into one reporting segment in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 280, “Segment Reporting.” The Company continues to be focused on key strategies for growth in sales, earnings and cash flow in the years ahead that include: Transforming the omnichannel business and focusing on key growth areas, Embracing customer centricity, including a simplified value proposition, and Optimizing value in the real estate portfolio. These strategies continue to evolve and the Company has developed specific initiatives to deliver an exclusive and distinctive merchandise assortment, including the Company's private brands; expand the digital frontier while delivering repeatable, signature encounters; and develop an omnichannel customer relationship through personalized experiences, powerful brand messaging and strengthened, cross-channel loyalty programs. The Company remains focused on driving additional profitable sales growth through a series of organic and new business initiatives. The initiatives include a focus on fine jewelry, watches and women’s shoes, a reinvention of the beauty business that includes expansion of Bluemercury freestanding locations and inside existing Macy's stores and a focus on enhancements to digital content and mobile technology, an expansion of "Last Act"- a simplified pricing approach to clearance merchandise in Macy's stores, the expansion of Macy's Backstage within existing Macy's store locations, and utilization of different customer incentive programs to increase customer choice and provide value in transactions previously limited by coupon exclusions. Macy’s will continue to focus on customer initiatives including the development and testing of new merchandise concepts and categories, new services to increase traffic and new technology to improve the customer experience and the store’s ability to operate more efficiently. Such initiatives will enable the Company’s stores to personalize and simplify its customers’ shopping experiences, develop meaningful relationships with new customers and deepen relationships with its existing ones. In January 2017, the Company announced a series of actions to streamline its store portfolio, intensify cost efficiency efforts and execute its real estate strategy. These actions are intended to support the Company's strategy to further invest in omnichannel capabilities, improve customer experience and create shareholder value. In August 2016, the Company announced its intention to close approximately 100 Macy’s stores. The Company subsequently announced in January 2017, the closure of sixty-eight Macy’s stores by mid-2017, with the balance closing as leases and certain operating covenants expire or are amended and waived. In addition, the Company announced the reorganization of the field structure that supports the remaining stores and a significant restructuring of the Company's central operations to focus resources on strategic priorities, improve organizational agility and reduce expense. The Company’s real estate strategy is designed to create value through both monetization and redevelopment of certain assets: In January 2016, the Company completed a $270 million real estate transaction to recreate Macy's Brooklyn store. The Company continues to own and operate the first four floors and lower level of its existing nine-story retail store, which is currently being reconfigured and remodeled. The remaining portion of the store and its nearby parking facility were sold to Tishman Speyer in a single sales transaction. As the sales agreement required the Company to conduct certain redevelopment activities at Macy's Brooklyn store, the Company is recognizing the gain on the transaction, approximately $250 million, under the percentage of completion method of accounting over the redevelopment period. Accordingly, $117 million has been recognized to-date and the remaining gain is anticipated to be recognized over the next two years. In 2016, the Company had property and equipment sales, primarily related to real estate, totaling $673 million in cash proceeds and recognized real estate gains of $209 million. This includes the sale of its 248,000 square-foot Union Square Men’s building in San Francisco for approximately $250 million in January 2017. The Company will use part of the proceeds to consolidate the Men’s store into its main Union Square store. The Company will lease the Men’s store property for two to three years as it completes the reconfiguration of the main store. The Company is expected to recognize a gain of approximately $235 million in January 2018. In January 2017, the Company finalized the formation of a strategic alliance with Brookfield Asset Management, a leading global alternative asset manager, to create increased value in its real estate portfolio. Under the alliance, Brookfield has an exclusive right for up to 24 months to create a “pre-development plan” for each of approximately 50 Macy’s real estate assets, with an option for Macy’s to continue to identify and add assets into the alliance. The breadth of opportunity within the portfolio ranges from the additional development on a portion of an asset (such as a Company-controlled land parcel adjacent to a store) to the complete redevelopment of an existing store. Once a "pre-development plan" is created, the Company has the option to contribute the asset into a joint venture for the development plan to commence or sell the asset to Brookfield. If the Company chooses to contribute the asset into a joint venture, the Company may elect to participate as a funding or non-funding partner. After development, the joint venture may sell the asset and distribute proceeds accordingly. On February 28, 2017, the Company sold its downtown Minneapolis store and parking facility for $59 million of proceeds and a gain of approximately $47 million that is expected to be recognized in the first quarter of 2017. The downtown Minneapolis store will close in early 2017. In 2015, the Company opened the first six freestanding pilot stores in Macy's new off-price business, Macy's Backstage, in the New York City metro area. The Macy's Backstage locations average about 30,000 square feet and sell an assortment of women's, men's and children's apparel, cosmetics, shoes, fashion accessories, housewares, home textiles, toys intimate apparel and jewelry. The Company is now focused on opening Macy's Backstage stores within existing Macy's store locations as a way of increasing store productivity, increasing the number of shopping trips to Macy's and attracting new customers. As of January 28, 2017, the Company is operating 22 Macy's Backstage locations (7 freestanding and 15 inside Macy's stores). In March 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Bluemercury, Inc., a luxury beauty products and spa retailer. The Company is focused on accelerating the growth of sales in freestanding Bluemercury stores in urban and suburban markets, enhancing its online capabilities and adding Bluemercury products and boutiques to Macy's stores. During 2016, the Company opened 24 new freestanding Bluemercury stores and 15 new Bluemercury locations inside existing Macy's stores and as of January 28, 2017, the Company is operating 120 Bluemercury locations (101 freestanding and 19 inside Macy's stores). In August 2015, the Company established a joint venture, Macy's China Limited, of which the Company holds a sixty-five percent ownership interest and Hong Kong-based Fung Retailing Limited holds the remaining thirty-five percent ownership interest. Macy's China Limited began selling merchandise in China in the fourth quarter of 2015 through an e-commerce presence on Alibaba Group's Tmall Global. The Company's reporting includes the financial operations of Macy's China Limited, with the thirty-five percent ownership reported as a noncontrolling interest. In early 2017, the Company opened a Macy’s store at Fashion Place in Murray, UT and plans to open a store at Westfield Century City in Los Angeles, CA, later in the year. In addition, the Company expects to open approximately 30 additional Bluemercury locations and approximately 30 Macy’s Backstage locations inside Macy’s stores. Announced new stores in future years include Bloomingdale’s in San Jose, CA (2019), and Norwalk, CT (2019). In addition, under license agreements with Al Tayer Group, a new Bloomingdale’s store opened at 360 Mall in Al Zahra, Kuwait in March 2017 and new Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s stores are planned to open in Al Maryah Central in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates in 2018. 2016 Overview 2016 was another challenging year due in part to changes in consumer buying habits and spending. However, the Company began implementation of a number of initiatives, including those announced in 2015 as well as a major organizational restructuring and streamlining the Company's store portfolio, which are expected to improve performance in the coming years. Selected results of 2016 include: Comparable sales on an owned basis decreased and comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis decreased Operating income for 2016 was $1.892 billion or of sales, excluding impairments, store closing and other costs and settlement charges, a decrease of 18.7% and basis points as a percent of sales from 2015 on a comparable basis. Diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, excluding certain items, declined 17.5% to $3.11 in 2016 from $3.77 in 2015. Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairments, store closing and other costs and settlement charges) as a percent to net sales was 11.4% in 2016, as compared to 12.5% in 2015. Return on invested capital ("ROIC"), a key measure of operating productivity, was 18.5% a decrease from 20.1% in 2015. Net cash provided by operating activities, net of cash used by investing activities increased significantly in 2016 as compared to 2015. The Company repurchased 7.9 million shares of its common stock for $316 million in 2016, and increased its annualized dividend rate to $1.51 per share. This annualized dividend rate represents an increase of 5% and is the sixth increase in the dividend in the past five years. See pages 20 to 23 for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures presented above to the most comparable GAAP financial measures and other important information. Important Information Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of the Company's financial information with additional useful information in evaluating operating performance. Management believes that providing supplemental changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis, which includes the impact of growth in comparable sales of departments licensed to third parties, assists in evaluating the Company's ability to generate sales growth, whether through owned businesses or departments licensed to third parties, and in evaluating the impact of changes in the manner in which certain departments are operated. Management believes that excluding certain items that may vary substantially in frequency and magnitude period-to-period from diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders and from operating income and EBITDA as percentages to sales provides useful supplemental measures that assist in evaluating the Company's ability to generate earnings and leverage sales, respectively, and to more readily compare these metrics between past and future periods. Management also believes that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that such supplemental measures facilitate comparisons between companies that have different capital and financing structures and/or tax rates. In addition, management believes that ROIC is a useful supplemental measure in evaluating how efficiently the Company employs its capital. The Company uses some of these non-GAAP financial measures as performance measures for components of executive compensation. The reconciliation of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure of changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis to GAAP comparable sales (i.e., on an owned basis) is in the same manner as illustrated below, where the impact of growth in comparable sales of departments licensed to third parties is the only reconciling item. In addition, the Company does not provide the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure of diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy’s, Inc. shareholders because the timing and amount of excluded items (e.g., asset impairment charges, retirement settlement charges and other store closing related costs) are unreasonably difficult to fully and accurately estimate. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as supplementing, and not as an alternative or substitute for, the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Certain of the items that may be excluded or included in non-GAAP financial measures may be significant items that could impact the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows and should therefore be considered in assessing the Company's actual and future financial condition and performance. Additionally, the amounts received by the Company on account of sales of departments licensed to third parties are limited to commissions received on such sales. The methods used by the Company to calculate its non-GAAP financial measures may differ significantly from methods used by other companies to compute similar measures. As a result, any non-GAAP financial measures presented herein may not be comparable to similar measures provided by other companies. Change in Comparable Sales The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure of changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis, to GAAP comparable sales (i.e., on an owned basis), which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Increase (decrease) in comparable sales on an owned basis (note 1) Impact of growth in comparable sales of departments licensed to third parties (note 2) Increase (decrease) in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis Notes: Represents the period-to-period percentage change in net sales from stores in operation throughout the year presented and the immediately preceding year and all online sales of macys.com and bloomingdales.com, adjusting for the 53rd week in 2012, excluding commissions from departments licensed to third parties. Stores undergoing remodeling, expansion or relocation remain in the comparable sales calculation unless the store is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable sales differ among companies in the retail industry. Represents the impact of including the sales of departments licensed to third parties occurring in stores in operation throughout the year presented and the immediately preceding year and all online sales of macys.com and bloomingdales.com, adjusting for the 53rd week in 2012, in the calculation of comparable sales. The Company licenses third parties to operate certain departments in its stores and online and receives commissions from these third parties based on a percentage of their net sales. In its financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP, the Company includes these commissions (rather than sales of the departments licensed to third parties) in its net sales. The Company does not, however, include any amounts in respect of licensed department sales (or any commissions earned on such sales) in its comparable sales in accordance with GAAP (i.e., on an owned basis). The amounts of commissions earned on sales of departments licensed to third parties are not material to its net sales for the periods presented. Operating Income, Excluding Certain Items, as a Percent to Net Sales The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure operating income, excluding certain items, as a percent to net sales to GAAP operating income as a percent to net sales, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. (millions, except percentages) Net sales 25,778 27,079 28,105 27,931 27,686 Operating income 1,315 2,039 2,800 2,678 2,661 Operating income as a percent to net sales 5.1 7.5 10.0 9.6 9.6 Operating income 1,315 2,039 2,800 2,678 2,661 Add back impairments, store closing and other costs Add back settlement charges Operating income, excluding certain items 1,892 2,327 2,887 2,766 2,666 Operating income, excluding certain items, as a percent to net sales 7.3 8.6 10.3 9.9 9.6 Diluted Earnings Per Share Attributable to Macy's, Inc. Shareholders, Excluding Certain Items The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, excluding certain items, to GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders 1.99 3.22 4.22 3.86 3.24 Add back the pre-tax impact of impairments, store closing and other costs 1.54 0.86 0.24 0.23 0.01 Add back the pre-tax impact of settlement charges 0.31 Add back the pre-tax impact of premium on early retirement of debt 0.05 0.33 Deduct the income tax impact of impairments, store closing and other costs, settlement charges and premium on early retirement of debt (0.73 (0.31 (0.11 (0.09 (0.12 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, excluding the impact of impairments, store closing and other costs, settlement charges and premium on early retirement of debt 3.11 3.77 4.40 4.00 3.46 Adjusted EBITDA as a Percent to Net Sales The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), as adjusted to exclude premium on early retirement of debt, impairments, store closing and other costs and settlement charges ("Adjusted EBITDA"), as a percent to net sales to GAAP net income as a percent to net sales, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. (millions, except percentages) Net sales 25,778 27,079 28,105 27,931 27,686 Net income 1,070 1,526 1,486 1,335 Net income as a percent to net sales 2.4 4.0 5.4 5.3 4.8 Net income 1,070 1,526 1,486 1,335 Add back impairments, store closing and other costs Add back settlement charges Add back interest expense net Add back premium on early retirement of debt Add back federal, state and local income tax expense Add back depreciation and amortization 1,058 1,061 1,036 1,020 1,049 Adjusted EBITDA 2,950 3,388 3,923 3,786 3,715 Adjusted EBITDA as a percent to net sales 11.4 12.5 14.0 13.6 13.4 ROIC The Company defines ROIC as adjusted operating income as a percent to average invested capital. Average invested capital is comprised of an annual two-point (i.e., end of the year presented and the immediately preceding year) average of gross property and equipment, a capitalized value of non-capitalized leases equal to periodic annual reported net rent expense multiplied by a factor of eight and a four-point (i.e., end of each quarter within the period presented) average of other selected assets and liabilities. The calculation of the capitalized value of non-capitalized leases is consistent with industry and credit rating agency practice and the specified assets are subject to a four-point average to compensate for seasonal fluctuations. The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure of ROIC to operating income as a percent to property and equipment net, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. (millions, except percentages) Operating income 1,315 2,039 2,800 2,678 2,661 Property and equipment net 7,317 7,708 7,865 8,063 8,308 Operating income as a percent to property and equipment net 18.0 26.5 35.6 33.2 32.0 Operating income 1,315 2,039 2,800 2,678 2,661 Add back impairments, store closing and other costs Add back settlement charges Add back depreciation and amortization 1,058 1,061 1,036 1,020 1,049 Add back rent expense, net Real estate Personal property Deferred rent amortization Adjusted operating income 3,289 3,709 4,221 4,073 3,991 Property and equipment net 7,317 7,708 7,865 8,063 8,308 Add back accumulated depreciation and amortization 5,088 5,457 5,830 6,007 5,967 Add capitalized value of non-capitalized leases 2,712 2,568 2,384 2,296 2,208 Add (deduct) other selected assets and liabilities: Receivables Merchandise inventories 6,012 6,226 6,155 6,065 5,754 Prepaid expenses and other current assets Other assets Merchandise accounts payable (2,182 (2,366 (2,472 (2,520 (2,362 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (2,924 (2,677 (2,511 (2,328 (2,333 Total average invested capital 17,771 18,482 18,814 18,979 18,833 ROIC 18.5 20.1 22.4 21.5 21.2 Results of Operations Amount to Sales Amount to Sales Amount to Sales (dollars in millions, except per share figures) Net sales 25,778 27,079 28,105 Increase (decrease) in sales 0.6 Increase (decrease) in comparable sales 0.7 Cost of sales (15,621 (60.6 (16,496 (60.9 (16,863 (60.0 Gross margin 10,157 39.4 10,583 39.1 11,242 40.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses (8,265 (32.0 (8,256 (30.5 (8,355 (29.7 Impairments, store closing and other costs (479 (288 (87 Settlement charges (98 Operating income 1,315 5.1 2,039 7.5 2,800 10.0 Interest expense net (363 (361 (393 Premium on early retirement of debt (17 Income before income taxes 1,678 2,390 Federal, state and local income tax expense (341 (608 (864 Net income 1,070 1,526 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest Net income attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders 2.0 1,072 4.0 1,526 5.4 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders 1.99 3.22 4.22 Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures Increase (decrease) in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis 1.4 Operating income, excluding certain items 1,892 7.3 2,327 8.6 2,887 10.3 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, excluding certain items 3.11 3.77 4.40 Adjusted EBITDA as a percent to net sales 11.4 12.5 14.0 ROIC 18.5 20.1 22.4 See pages 20 to 23 for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure and for other important information. Store information (at year-end) Stores operated Square footage (in millions) 130.2 141.9 147.4 Comparison of and Net Income Attributable to Macy's, Inc. Shareholders Net income attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders for decreased compared to reflecting lower sales and gross margin and higher selling, general and administrative expenses, impairments, store closing costs and other costs, settlement charges and net interest expense, partially offset by lower income taxes in 2016 as compared to 2015. Net Sales Net sales for decreased $1,301 million or compared to The decrease in comparable sales on an owned basis for was 3.5% compared to The decrease in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis for was 2.9% compared to (See pages 20 and 21 for information regarding the Company's calculation of comparable sales, a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measure which takes into account sales of departments licensed to third parties to the most comparable GAAP measure and other important information). The Company experienced an overall weakness in sales, but geographically sales in were strongest in the Southwest, particularly southern California. Digital sales continued to be strong in and experienced double digit growth. By family of business, sales in were strongest in apparel, fine jewelry, shoes, intimate apparel and fragrances. Sales in were less strong in fashion jewelry, handbags, and fashion watches. Sales of the Company's private label brands represented approximately 20% of net sales in the Macy's-branded operations in and 2015. Cost of Sales Cost of sales for decreased $875 million from The cost of sales rate as a percent to net sales of 60.6% was 30 basis points lower in as compared to 60.9% in primarily due to fewer markdowns taken in 2016 as compared to 2015 and offset slightly by higher delivery expenses associated with the Company's omnichannel activities and free shipping promotions. The application of the last-in, first-out (LIFO) retail inventory method did not result in the recognition of any LIFO charges or credits affecting cost of sales in either period. SG&A Expenses SG&A expenses for increased $9 million from and the SG&A rate as a percent to net sales of 32.0% was 150 basis points higher in as compared to SG&A expenses in were impacted by lower income from credit operations and higher expenses associated with the continued investments in the Company's omnichannel operations, investments in Bluemercury, Macy's Backstage and Macy's China Limited. These increases were partially offset by lower retirement expenses (including Pension Plan, SERP and defined contribution plan expenses), lower advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances and the impact of the restructuring announced at the end of 2015. Income from credit operations was $736 million in 2016 as compared to $831 million in 2015. SG&A expenses included gains on the sales of certain store locations and surplus properties of $209 million in 2016 compared to $212 million in 2015. Retirement expenses were $44 million in 2016 as compared to $77 million in 2015. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,058 million for 2016, compared to $1,061 million for 2015. Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, was $1,153 million for 2016 compared to $1,173 million for 2015. Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, as a percent to net sales was 4.5% for 2016 and 4.3% for 2015. Impairments, Store Closing and Other Costs Impairments, store closing and other costs for includes costs and expenses primarily associated with the organizational changes and store closings announced in January 2017. During these costs and expenses included asset impairment charges of $265 million, $168 million of severance and other human resource-related costs and $46 million of other related costs and expenses. Impairments, store closing and other costs for included costs and expenses primarily associated with organization changes and store closings announced in January 2016. During 2015, these costs and expenses included asset impairment charges of $148 million, $123 million of severance and other human resource-related costs and $17 million of other related costs and expenses. Settlement Charges $98 million of non-cash settlement charges were recognized in 2016. These charges relate to the pro-rata recognition of net actuarial losses associated with the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and are the result of an increase in lump sum distributions associated with store closings, a voluntary separation program, organizational restructuring, and periodic distribution activity. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense for increased $2 million from Net interest expense for was impacted by lower capitalized interest associated with the Company's construction projects, offset slightly by lower rates on outstanding borrowings as compared to Effective Tax Rate The Company's effective tax rate of 35.8% for and 36.2% for differ from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35%, and on a comparative basis, principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes, including the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Comparison of and Net Income Attributable to Macy's, Inc. Shareholders Net income attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders for decreased compared to reflecting lower sales and gross margin and higher impairments, store closing costs and other costs, partially offset by lower selling, general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income taxes in 2015 as compared to 2014. Net Sales Net sales for decreased $1,026 million or compared to The decrease in comparable sales on an owned basis for was 3.0% compared to The decrease in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis for was 2.5% compared to (See pages 20 and 21 for information regarding the Company's calculation of comparable sales, a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measure which takes into account sales of departments licensed to third parties to the most comparable GAAP measure and other important information). The Company experienced an overall weakness in sales, but geographically sales in were stronger in the western and southern regions, where weather was less of a factor, while sales at locations that are frequented by international tourists, such as New York City, Las Vegas, San Francisco and Chicago were negatively impacted by lower levels of spending by these tourists. Digital sales growth continued to be strong in 2015. By family of business, sales in were strongest in active apparel, cosmetics and fragrances and furniture and mattresses. Sales in 2015 were less strong in fashion watches, cold weather items, and the housewares and tabletop businesses. Sales of the Company's private label brands represented approximately 20% of net sales in the Macy's-branded operations in Cost of Sales Cost of sales for decreased $367 million from The cost of sales rate as a percent to net sales of 60.9% was 90 basis points higher in as compared to 60.0% in primarily due to higher markdowns resulting from the need to clear inventory based on the weaker sales trend as well as continued growth of the omnichannel businesses and the resulting impact of free shipping. The application of the last-in, first-out (LIFO) retail inventory method did not result in the recognition of any LIFO charges or credits affecting cost of sales in either period. SG&A Expenses SG&A expenses for decreased $99 million from however the SG&A rate as a percent to net sales of 30.5% was 80 basis points higher in as compared to SG&A expenses in benefited from higher income from credit operations and higher gains on the sale of certain store locations and surplus properties, partially offset by higher retirement expenses (including Pension Plan, SERP and defined contribution plan expenses), higher expenses associated with the continued investments in the Company's omnichannel operations, investments in Bluemercury, Macy's Backstage and Macy's China Limited and higher depreciation and amortization expense. Income from credit operations was $831 million in as compared to $776 million in SG&A expenses included gains on the sales of certain store locations and surplus properties of $212 million in 2015 as compared to $92 million in 2014. Included in the gains on the sales of store locations and surplus properties in 2015 was $84 million related to the sale of Brooklyn real estate and $57 million related to the downtown Seattle real estate transaction. Retirement expenses were $77 million in 2015 as compared to $65 million in 2014. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,061 million for compared to $1,036 million for Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, was $1,173 million for compared to $1,177 million for Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, as a percent to net sales was 4.3% for and 4.2% for Impairments, Store Closing and Other Costs Impairments, store closing and other costs for included costs and expenses primarily associated with the cost efficiency initiatives and store closings announced in January 2016. During 2015, these costs and expenses included $123 million of severance and other human resource-related costs and asset impairment charges of $148 million. Impairments, store closing and other costs for 2014 included costs and expenses primarily associated with organization changes and store closings announced in January 2015. During 2014, these costs and expenses included $46 million of severance and other human resource-related costs and asset impairment charges of $33 million. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense for decreased $32 million from Net interest expense for benefited from lower rates on outstanding borrowings as compared to and from the recognition of unamortized debt premium associated with the $76 million of 8.125% senior debentures due 2035 which were redeemed at par on August 17, 2015, pursuant to the terms of the debentures. Premium on Early Retirement of Debt On the Company provided a notice of redemption related to all of the $407 million of 7.875% senior notes due 2015, as allowed under the terms of the indenture. The price for the redemption was calculated pursuant to the indenture and resulted in the recognition of additional interest expense of $17 million during 2014. The additional interest expense resulting from this transaction is presented as premium on early retirement of debt on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Effective Tax Rate The Company's effective tax rate of 36.2% for and differ from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35%, and on a comparative basis, principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes, including the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Additionally, income tax expense for 2015 and 2014 benefited from historic rehabilitation tax credits. Guidance The Company's operations are impacted by competitive pressures from department stores, specialty stores, mass merchandisers, online retailers and all other retail channels. The Company's operations are also impacted by general consumer spending levels, including the impact of general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of weather or natural disasters and other factors over which the Company has little or no control. In recent years, consumer spending levels have been affected to varying degrees by a number of factors, including modest economic growth, uncertainty regarding governmental spending and tax policies, unemployment levels, tightened consumer credit, an improving housing market and a fluctuating stock market. In addition, consumer spending levels of international customers are impacted by the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. These factors have affected, to varying degrees, the amount of funds that consumers are willing and able to spend for discretionary purchases, including purchases of some of the merchandise offered by the Company. All economic conditions ultimately affect the Company's overall operations. However, the effects of economic conditions can be experienced differently and at different times, in the various geographic regions in which the Company operates, in relation to the different types of merchandise that the Company offers for sale, or in relation to each of the Company's branded operations. Based on its assessment of current and anticipated market conditions and its recent performance, the Company's 2017 assumptions include the following: Total sales decline of approximately 3.2% 4.3% from 2016 levels. Total sales in 2017 reflect a 53rd week of sales, whereas comparable sales below are on a 52-week basis. Comparable sales decrease on an owned basis of approximately 2.2% 3.3%, with comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis to decline approximately 2% 3%. Asset sale gains of approximately $415 million $435 million, including an expected $235 million gain associated with the sale of the Company's Union Square Macy's store and $100 million of additional gain from the sale of the Brooklyn real estate. Selling, general and administrative expense savings of approximately $550 million from the restructuring and store closures announced at the end of 2016, partially offset by increased growth spending of approximately $250 million (resulting in a net expense savings of approximately $300 million). Credit income of approximately $740 million $760 million. Adjusted diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders of $3.37 to $3.62, excluding any charges associated with store closures, restructuring, or settlement charges associated with Company's defined benefit plans. Included in this guidance is the expected gain of approximately $235 million, or approximately $.47 per diluted share, associated with the sale of the Company's Union Square Macy's Men's store. Capital expenditures of approximately $900 million. Excess cash after capital expenditures, payment of the Company's dividends and the $300 million debt maturity in July 2017 is expected to be used to repurchase debt. The Company's budgeted capital expenditures are primarily related to new stores, store remodels, development costs associated with the Brookfield Strategic Alliance joint venture, technology and omnichannel investments, distribution network improvements and new growth initiatives. In early 2017, the Company opened a Macy’s store at Fashion Place in Murray, UT and plans to open a store at Westfield Century City in Los Angeles, CA, later in the year. In addition, the Company expects to open approximately 30 additional Bluemercury locations and approximately 30 Macy’s Backstage locations inside Macy’s stores. Announced new stores in future years include Bloomingdale’s in San Jose, CA (2019), and Norwalk, CT (2019). In addition, under license agreements with Al Tayer Group, a new Bloomingdale’s store opened at 360 Mall in Al Zahra, Kuwait in March 2017 and new Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s stores are planned to open in Al Maryah Central in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates in 2018. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facility described below. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,801 million in compared to $1,984 million in reflecting lower net income. Investing Activities Net cash used by investing activities for was $187 million compared to net cash used by investing activities of $1,092 million for Investing activities for included purchases of property and equipment totaling $596 million and capitalized software of $316 million compared to purchases of property and equipment totaling $777 million and capitalized software of $336 million for Investing activities for 2015 includes the acquisition of Bluemercury, Inc., net of cash acquired, for $212 million. In 2016, the Company continued to execute on its real estate strategy that includes creating value through monetization and, in some case, redevelopment of real estate assets. Overall, property and equipment sales, primarily related to real estate, generated cash proceeds of $673 million in 2016, compared to $204 million in 2015. During 2016, the Company opened one new Macy's store, one new Bloomingdale's The Outlet store, one new freestanding Macy's Backstage store and 24 new freestanding Bluemercury stores. During 2015, the Company opened one new Macy's store, one new Bloomingdale's store, three new Bloomingdale's The Outlet stores, six new Macy's freestanding Backstage stores and 15 new freestanding Bluemercury stores. Since the acquisition of Bluemercury in March 2015, the Company has opened 39 freestanding Bluemercury stores and 19 locations within an existing Macy's. Financing Activities Net cash used by the Company for financing activities was $1,426 million for including the acquisition of the Company's common stock under its share repurchase program at an approximate cost of $316 million the repayment of $751 million of debt and the payment of $459 million of cash dividends, partially offset by the issuance of $36 million of common stock, primarily related to the exercise of stock options, and an increase in outstanding checks of $61 million On August 15, 2016, the Company redeemed at par the principal amount of $108 million of 7.875% senior debentures due 2036, pursuant to the terms of the debentures. Interest expense in 2016 benefited from the recognition of unamortized debt premium associated with this debt. On October 14, 2016, the Company repaid $59 million of 7.45% senior debentures at maturity. On December 1, 2016, the Company repaid $577 million of 5.9% senior notes at maturity. The Company entered into a new credit agreement with certain financial institutions on May 6, 2016 providing for revolving credit borrowings and letters of credit in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500 million (which may be increased to $1,750 million at the option of the Company, subject to the willingness of existing or new lenders to provide commitments for such additional financing) outstanding at any particular time. This agreement is set to expire May 6, 2021 and replaced the prior agreement which was set to expire May 10, 2018. As of and there were no revolving credit loans outstanding under this credit agreement, and there were no borrowings under the agreement throughout all of and In addition, there were no standby letters of credit outstanding at and there were less than $1 million of standby letters of credit outstanding at Revolving loans under the credit agreement bear interest based on various published rates. The Company is party to a $1,500 million unsecured commercial paper program. The Company may issue and sell commercial paper in an aggregate amount outstanding at any particular time not to exceed its then-current combined borrowing availability under the bank credit agreement with certain financial institutions. The amount of borrowings under the commercial paper program increased to its highest level for 2016 of approximately 388 million during the fourth quarter. As of January 28, 2017, there were no remaining borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program. Net cash used by the Company for financing activities was $2,029 million for and included the acquisition of the Company's common stock under its share repurchase program at an approximate cost of $2,000 million the repayment of $152 million of debt and the payment of $456 million of cash dividends and a decrease in outstanding checks of $83 million partially offset by the issuance of approximately $500 million of debt and the issuance of $163 million of common stock, primarily related to the exercise of stock options. On the Company repaid $69 million of senior debentures at maturity. On August 17, 2015, the Company redeemed at par the principal amount of $76 million of 8.125% senior debentures due 2035, pursuant to the terms of the debentures. Interest expense in 2015 benefited from the recognition of unamortized debt premium associated with the $76 million of 8.125% senior debentures. The credit agreement requires the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio for the latest four quarters of no less than 3.25 and a specified leverage ratio as of and for the latest four quarters of no more than 3.75. The Company's interest coverage ratio for was 7.36 and its leverage ratio at was 2.38 in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit agreement. The interest coverage ratio is defined as EBITDA divided by net interest expense and the leverage ratio is defined as debt divided by EBITDA. For purposes of these calculations EBITDA is calculated as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non-cash impairment of goodwill, intangibles and real estate, non-recurring cash charges not to exceed in the aggregate $300 million and extraordinary losses less interest income and non-recurring or extraordinary gains. Debt is adjusted to exclude the premium on acquired debt and net interest is adjusted to exclude the amortization of premium on acquired debt and premium on early retirement of debt. A breach of a restrictive covenant in the Company's credit agreement or the inability of the Company to maintain the financial ratios described above could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. In addition, an event of default would occur under the credit agreement if any indebtedness of the Company in excess of an aggregate principal amount of $150 million becomes due prior to its stated maturity or the holders of such indebtedness become able to cause it to become due prior to its stated maturity. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, elect to declare the outstanding principal, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, most of the Company's senior notes and debentures contain cross-default provisions based on the non-payment at maturity, or other default after an applicable grace period, of any other debt, the unpaid principal amount of which is not less than $100 million that could be triggered by an event of default under the credit agreement. In such an event, the Company's senior notes and debentures that contain cross-default provisions would also be subject to acceleration. At no notes or debentures contain provisions requiring acceleration of payment upon a debt rating downgrade. However, the terms of approximately $4,250 million in aggregate principal amount of the Company's senior notes outstanding at that date require the Company to offer to purchase such notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest in specified circumstances involving both a change of control (as defined in the applicable indenture) of the Company and the rating of the notes by specified rating agencies at a level below investment grade. On February 26, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved an additional $1,500 million in authorization to purchase Common Stock. During the Company repurchased approximately 7.9 million shares of its common stock for a total of approximately $316 million As of the Company had $1,716 million of authorization remaining under its share repurchase program. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its share repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. On February 24, 2017, the Company's board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of 37.75 cents per share on its common stock, payable April 3, 2017 to Macy's shareholders of record at the close of business on March 15, 2017. Contractual Obligations and Commitments At the Company had contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303(a)(5) of Regulation S-K) as follows: Obligations Due, by Period Total Less than Year Years Years More than Years (millions) Short-term debt Long-term debt 6,459 1,092 5,319 Interest on debt 4,162 2,531 Capital lease obligations Operating leases 3,683 2,289 Letters of credit Other obligations 4,325 2,744 19,019 3,748 1,769 2,494 11,008 “Other obligations” in the foregoing table includes post employment and postretirement benefits, self-insurance reserves, group medical/dental/life insurance programs, merchandise purchase obligations and obligations under outsourcing arrangements, construction contracts, energy and other supply agreements identified by the Company and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. The Company's merchandise purchase obligations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, typically being higher in the summer and early fall and being lower in the late winter and early spring. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its merchandise inventories and other goods and services otherwise than through binding contracts. Consequently, the amounts shown as “Other obligations” in the foregoing table do not reflect the total amounts that the Company would need to spend on goods and services in order to operate its businesses in the ordinary course. The Company has not included in the contractual obligations table $157 million of long-term liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for various tax positions taken or $54 million of related accrued federal, state and local interest and penalties. These liabilities may increase or decrease over time as a result of tax examinations, and given the status of examinations, the Company cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. The Company has included in the contractual obligations table $6 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook Management believes that, with respect to the Company's current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Company's reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements and other cash requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Company's ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity. To the extent that the Company's cash balances from time to time exceed amounts that are needed to fund its immediate liquidity requirements, the Company will consider alternative uses of some or all of such excess cash. Such alternative uses may include, among others, the redemption or repurchase of debt, equity or other securities through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and the funding of pension related obligations. Depending upon its actual and anticipated sources and uses of liquidity, conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, for the purpose of raising capital which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes including the redemption or repurchase of debt, equity or other securities through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and the funding of pension related obligations. The Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, retail businesses and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if any, are expected to be financed from one or more of the following sources: cash on hand, cash from operations, borrowings under existing or new credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt or other securities, including common stock. Critical Accounting Policies Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow-moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. Long-Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying values of long-lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, such as historical operating losses or plans to close stores before the end of their previously estimated useful lives. Additionally, on an annual basis, the recoverability of the carrying values of individual stores is evaluated. A potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes management's assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write-down is recorded if the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long-lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write-downs. If the Company commits to a plan to dispose of a long-lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, estimated cash flows are revised accordingly, and the Company may be required to record an asset impairment write-down. Additionally, related liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. Income Taxes Income taxes are estimated based on the tax statutes, regulations and case law of the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred income tax assets are evaluated for recoverability based on all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. Deferred income tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Uncertain tax positions are recognized if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Uncertain tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are then measured to determine the amount of benefit eligible for recognition in the financial statements. Each uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Uncertain tax positions are evaluated and adjusted as appropriate, while taking into account the progress of audits of various taxing jurisdictions. The Company does not anticipate that resolution of these matters will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the Company's uncertain tax positions, provision for income taxes, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. Although the Company believes that its judgments are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in the Company's historical income provisions and accruals. Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plans The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension Plan”) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the “SERP”). The Company accounts for these plans in accordance with ASC Topic 715, “Compensation Retirement Benefits.” Under ASC Topic 715, an employer recognizes the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. Additionally, pension expense is generally recognized on an accrual basis over the average remaining lifetime of participants. The pension expense calculation is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 provides the funding requirements for the Pension Plan which are different from the employer's accounting for the plan as outlined in ASC Topic 715. No funding contributions were required, and the Company made no funding contributions to the Pension Plan in 2016. As of the date of this report, the Company does not anticipate making funding contributions to the Pension Plan in 2017. Management believes that, with respect to the Company's current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with available borrowing under its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Company's Pension Plan cash requirements in both the near term and also over the longer term. At the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $1,232 million for the Pension Plan and $248 million for the SERP. The unrecognized losses for the Pension Plan and the SERP will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years in accordance with ASC Topic 715, and is expected to impact Pension and SERP net periodic benefit costs by approximately $41 million The Company generally amortizes unrecognized gains and losses on a straight-line basis over the average remaining lifetime of participants using the corridor approach. In addition, approximately $80 to 90 million of net actuarial losses are also expected to be recognized in as part of a non-cash settlement charge, resulting from an anticipated increase in lump sum distributions associated with store closings, a voluntary separation program and organizational restructuring and small balance force outs, in addition to annual distribution activity. The calculation of pension expense and pension liabilities requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long-term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan) and the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations. As of January 31, 2015, the Company lowered the assumed annual long-term rate of return for the Pension Plan's assets from 7.50% to 7.00% based on expected future returns on the portfolio of assets. The Company develops its expected long-term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long-term asset class return expectations, as well as long-term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases or decreases as the expected rate of return on the assets of the Pension Plan decreases or increases, respectively. Lowering or raising the expected long-term rate of return assumption on the Pension Plan's assets by 0.25% would increase or decrease the estimated pension expense by approximately $8 million. The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a weighted-average rate of 4.00% at and 4.17% at for the Pension Plan and 4.07% at and 4.23% at for the SERP. The discount rate used to determine the present value of the Company's Pension Plan and SERP obligations is based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with various maturities. Each year's expected future benefit payments are discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate, thereby generating the overall discount rate for Pension Plan and SERP obligations. As the discount rate is reduced or increased, pension liability would increase or decrease, respectively, and future pension expense would decrease or increase, respectively. Lowering the discount rates by 0.25% would increase the projected benefit obligations at by approximately $105 million and would decrease estimated pension expense by approximately $3 million. Increasing the discount rates by 0.25% would decrease the projected benefit obligations at by approximately $99 million and would increase estimated pension expense by approximately $3 million. In 2016, the Company changed the method used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for the Pension Plan and SERP. The new method uses a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components of net periodic benefit costs. Under this approach, the Company applies discounting using individual spot rates from the yield curve composed of the rates of return from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities available at the measurement date. These spot rates align to each of the projected benefit obligation and service cost cash flows. Historically, the Company estimated the service and interest cost components using a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligations. The Company made this change to improve the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and the corresponding yield curve spot rates and to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs. The Company accounted for this change as a change in estimate prospectively starting in 2016. The 2016 reduction in service cost and interest cost for the Pension Plan and SERP associated with this change was approximately $36 million New Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which establishes principles to report useful information to financial statements users about the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue from contracts with customers. ASU No. 2014-09 along with related amendments ASU Nos. 2016-20, 2016-12, 2016-10, 2016-08, and 2015-14 comprise ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and provide guidance that is applicable to all contracts with customers regardless of industry-specific or transaction-specific fact patterns The new standard and its related updates are effective for the Company beginning on February 4, 2018. Early adoption is permitted in 2017; however, Macy's will not early adopt the new guidance. On the effective date, the Company will apply the new guidance retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application. The Company is currently evaluating the methods of adoption and has not yet decided on the method to be applied when the new revenue guidance is effective. Combined with the guidance in ASU No. 2017-05, Other Income Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20), the Company currently estimates the material impacts to its consolidated financial statements to include changes in the presentation of estimates for future sales returns and related recoverable assets, presentation of earnings from credit operations, timing of certain real estate gains (particularly those with leaseback components) and the presentation of certain consignment and license arrangements. The Company does not expect the new guidance to materially impact the revenue recognition associated with gift card breakage as well as the accounting for its warranty arrangements, loyalty programs and other customer incentive arrangements. The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the new standards and the final determinations of the impact of the new guidance may differ from these initial estimates. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize substantially all leases on-balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. The new standard establishes a right of use (ROU) model that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement. The new standard is effective for the Company on February 3, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The new standard is to be adopted utilizing a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the consolidated financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. The Company has not yet decided whether it will early adopt the new standard but the Company currently plans to elect all of the standard's available practical expedients on adoption. The Company expects that the new lease standard will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. While the Company is continuing to assess the effects of adoption, the Company currently believes the most significant changes relate to the recognition of new ROU assets and lease liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets for real property and personal property operating leases as well as changes to the timing of recognition of certain real estate asset sale gains in the consolidated statements of income due to application of the new sale-leaseback guidance and ASU No. 2017-05 as discussed above. The Company expects that substantially all of its operating lease commitments disclosed in Note 4, "Properties and Leases", to the consolidated financial statements will be subject to the new guidance and will be recognized as operating lease liabilities and ROU assets upon adoption. A significant change in leasing activity between the date of this report and adoption is not expected. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The new guidance includes multiple provisions intended to simplify various aspects of the accounting for share-based payments, including accounting for income taxes, earnings per share and forfeitures. This guidance requires all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded in income tax expense when the awards vest or are settled, with prospective application required. The new standard is effective for the Company on January 29, 2017. The impact of the new standard will vary based on the intrinsic value of vested awards when exercised or expired but is not currently expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715), which requires employers to disaggregate the service cost component from other components of net periodic benefit costs and to disclose the amounts of net periodic benefit costs that are included in each income statement line item. The standard requires employers to report the service cost component in the same line item as other compensation costs and to report the other components of net periodic benefit costs (which include interest costs, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost or credits and actuarial gains and losses) separately and outside a subtotal of operating income. The income statement guidance requires application on a retrospective basis. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact this standard will have on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and related disclosures. The Company plans to adopt this standard on February 4, 2018. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of any other recent accounting pronouncements will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.