The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 6, "Selected Financial Data" and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on This Annual Report on contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See "Forward-Looking Statements" and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors". Overview The Company is a leading omni-channel sporting goods retailer offering an extensive assortment of authentic, high-quality sports equipment, apparel, footwear and accessories through a blend of dedicated associates, in-store services and unique specialty shop-in-shops. The Company also owns and operates Golf Galaxy, Field Stream and other specialty concept stores, and Dick's Team Sports HQ, an all-in-one youth sports digital platform offering free league management services, mobile apps for scheduling, communications and live scorekeeping, custom uniforms and FanWear and access to donations and sponsorships. The Company offers its products through a content-rich eCommerce platform that is integrated with its store network and provides customers with the convenience and expertise of a 24-hour storefront. When used in this Annual Report on unless the context otherwise requires or otherwise specifies, any reference to "year" is to the Company's fiscal year. The primary factors that have historically influenced the Company's profitability and success have been the growth in its number of stores and selling square footage, the integration of eCommerce with its brick and mortar stores, positive consolidated same store sales, which include the Company's eCommerce business, and its strong gross profit margins. Over the last five years, the Company has grown from Dick's Sporting Goods stores at the end of fiscal 2011 to Dick's Sporting Goods stores at the end of fiscal The Company's eCommerce sales penetration to total net sales has increased from in fiscal 2011 to 11.9% in fiscal In recent years, the Company has innovated its eCommerce sites with enhancements in the customer experience, new releases of its mobile and tablet sites, and development of capabilities that integrate the Company's online presence with its brick and mortar stores, including ship-from-store; buy-online, pick-up in-store; return-to-store and multi-faceted marketing campaigns that are consistent across our stores and our eCommerce websites. On average, approximately 80% of the Company's eCommerce sales are generated within brick and mortar trade areas. The Company's senior management focuses on certain key indicators to monitor the Company's performance including: Consolidated same store sales performance Our management considers same store sales, which consists of both brick and mortar and eCommerce sales, to be an important indicator of our current performance. Same store sales results are important to leverage our costs, which include occupancy costs, store payroll and other store expenses. Same store sales also have a direct impact on our total net sales, cash and working capital. See further discussion of the Company's consolidated same store sales within Part II, Item 6. "Selected Financial Data". Operating cash flow Cash flow generation supports the general operating needs of the Company and funds capital expenditures from its omni-channel platform, distribution and administrative facilities, costs associated with continued improvement of information technology tools, potential strategic acquisitions or investments that may arise from time to time and stockholder return initiatives, including cash dividends and share repurchases. We typically generate significant positive operating cash flows and proportionately higher net income levels in our fiscal fourth quarter in connection with the holiday selling season and in part to sales of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. See further discussion of the Company's cash flows in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section herein. Quality of merchandise offerings To measure acceptance of its merchandise offerings, the Company monitors sell-throughs, inventory turns, gross margins and markdown rates on a department and style level. This analysis helps the Company manage inventory levels to reduce cash flow requirements and deliver optimal gross margins by improving merchandise flow and establishing appropriate price points to minimize markdowns. Store productivity To assess store-level performance, the Company monitors various indicators, including new store productivity, sales per square foot, store operating contribution margin and store cash flow. Executive Summary Earnings per diluted share of $2.56 in fiscal decreased compared to earnings per diluted share of $2.83 in fiscal Net income for fiscal totaled $287.4 million compared to $330.4 million in fiscal Fiscal net income includes $62.3 million, net of tax, or $0.56 per diluted share of costs for asset write-downs, impairments and merger and integration costs. Fiscal net income included $4.7 million net of tax, or $0.04 per diluted share, from a litigation settlement charge. Net sales increased to $7,922.0 million in fiscal from $7,271.0 million in fiscal eCommerce sales penetration in fiscal increased to 11.9% of total net sales compared to 10.3% in fiscal During fiscal the Company: Declared and paid aggregate cash dividends of $0.605 per share of common stock and Class common stock. Repurchased 3.1 million shares of common stock for $145.7 million Completed acquisitions of certain assets of The Sports Authority ("TSA") and Golfsmith International Holdings ("Golfsmith") and acquired two sports management technology companies, Affinity Sports and GameChanger. Ended the period with no outstanding borrowings under its Credit Agreement. The following table summarizes store openings and closings for fiscal and fiscal Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Dick's Sporting Goods Specialty Store Concepts Total Dick's Sporting Goods Specialty Store Concepts Total Beginning stores New stores: Single-level stores Two-level stores Total new stores Closed stores Ending stores Relocated stores Includes the Company's Golf Galaxy, Field Stream and other specialty concept stores. Fiscal 2016 includes three former TSA stores that were converted into Dick's Sporting Goods stores and 30 former Golfsmith stores that are operational and being converted to the Golf Galaxy brand. Results of Operations The following table presents, for the periods indicated, selected items in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a percentage of the Company's net sales, as well as the basis point change in percentage of net sales from the prior year: Fiscal Year Basis Point Increase (Decrease) in Percentage of Net Sales from Prior Year Basis Point Increase (Decrease) in Percentage of Net Sales from Prior Year 2016 2015 2015 2014 Net sales 100.00 100.00 100.00 N/A N/A Cost of goods sold, including occupancy and distribution costs 70.14 69.98 69.38 Gross profit 29.86 30.02 30.62 Selling, general and administrative expenses 23.68 22.19 22.04 Pre-opening expenses 0.51 0.48 0.45 Income from operations 5.68 7.36 8.13 (168) Interest expense 0.07 0.06 0.05 Other (income) expense (0.18 (0.08 Income before income taxes 5.79 7.30 8.16 (151) Provision for income taxes 2.16 2.76 3.11 Net income 3.63 4.54 5.05 Column does not add due to rounding. Note As retailers vary in how they record costs of operating their stores and supply chain between cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A"), our gross profit rate and SG&A rate may not be comparable to other retailers. For additional information regarding the types of costs classified within cost of goods sold, SG&A or any other financial statement line item presented herein, refer to Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", of this Annual Report on Fiscal (52 weeks) Compared to Fiscal (52 weeks) Net Sales Net sales increased to $7,922.0 million in fiscal from $7,271.0 million in fiscal due primarily to the growth of our store network and a increase in consolidated same store sales. The increase in consolidated same store sales contributed $245.6 million of the increase in net sales during fiscal 2016. The remaining $405.4 million increase in net sales was attributable to new stores. The increase in consolidated same store sales consisted of a increase at Dick's Sporting Goods and a increase at Golf Galaxy. eCommerce sales penetration was 11.9% of total net sales during fiscal 2016 compared to 10.3% of total net sales during fiscal representing an increase of approximately 26% in eCommerce sales. The increase in consolidated same store sales was driven by broad-based increases across our hardlines, apparel and footwear categories. The same store sales increase at Dick's Sporting Goods was driven by an increase in transactions of approximately and an increase in sales per transaction of approximately Income from Operations Income from operations decreased $85.3 million to $449.9 million in fiscal from $535.2 million in fiscal Gross profit increased to $2,365.8 million in fiscal from $2,182.9 million in fiscal but decreased as a percentage of net sales by basis points compared to fiscal Given the continuing consolidation that is occurring in the sporting goods industry, the Company conducted a thorough review of its business, including its merchandising strategy, vendor structure and its stores. As a result of this review, the Company is implementing a new merchandising and vendor strategy to better serve its customers. The Company will leverage its relationships with strategic vendors to drive growth through exclusive and differentiated products. During fiscal 2016, the Company recognized a $46.4 million inventory write-down, or 59 basis points, to reflect merchandise that does not fit with its go forward merchandising strategy to its net realizable value. Apart from the inventory write-down, merchandise margin expanded by 61 basis points when compared to fiscal 2015, which was primarily driven by lower promotional activity during fiscal 2016. The improvement in merchandise margin was partially offset by higher shipping expenses during fiscal 2016 resulting from the growth and increased penetration of eCommerce sales as compared to the Company's total net sales. Occupancy costs increased $68.4 million from fiscal but leveraged slightly compared to fiscal 2015. Our occupancy costs, which after the cost of merchandise represent our largest expense within cost of goods sold, are generally fixed in nature and fluctuate based on the number of stores that we operate. As a percentage of net sales, occupancy costs increased at a slightly lower rate than the 9% increase in net sales during fiscal 2016. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 16% to $1,875.6 million in fiscal from $1,613.1 million in fiscal and increased as a percentage of net sales by basis points. Fiscal 2016 includes $49.1 million of charges for asset write-downs, impairments and merger and integration costs. Fiscal 2015 included a litigation settlement charge of $7.9 million. The Company's comprehensive review of its business referenced above resulted in the closure of three Dick's Sporting Goods stores. The Company also closed ten Golf Galaxy stores that were located in close proximity to an acquired Golfsmith store that is better positioned to serve our customers. Further, the Company impaired assets of 12 stores and wrote-down the carrying value of a corporate aircraft that is held for sale to its fair market value. The current year charges also include TSA and Golfsmith integration costs. Apart from the enumerated items affecting both fiscal 2016 and 2015, selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of net sales by 98 basis points. This increase was due primarily to higher administrative payroll, incentive compensation and benefit costs and higher store payroll costs as the Company continued to invest to enhance the shopping experience within its stores compared to the same period last year. Pre-opening expenses increased to $40.3 million in fiscal from $34.6 million in fiscal Pre-opening expenses in any period fluctuate depending on the timing and number of store openings and relocations. Fiscal 2016 includes costs incurred by the Company to convert TSA and Golfsmith stores to Dick's Sporting Goods and Golf Galaxy stores totaling $5.1 million. Pre-opening rent expenses for our self-developed store sites will generally exceed those for sites built to our specifications by our landlords as we commence recognition of rent expense when we take possession of a site. Other (Income) Expense Other income increased to $14.4 million in fiscal 2016 compared to $0.3 million of expense in fiscal 2015. The Company recognizes investment income expense to reflect changes in deferred compensation plan investment values with a corresponding charge reduction to selling, general and administrative costs for the same amount. The Company recognized investment income totaling $7.2 million during fiscal 2016 compared to an investment loss of $1.7 million during fiscal 2015, primarily driven by an overall improvement in the equity markets, which impacted the deferred compensation plan investment values. Fiscal 2016 also includes a $4.0 million gain for the Company's share of profits from the liquidation of former Golfsmith stores as well as a $2.9 million benefit from a multi-year sales tax refund. Income Taxes The Company's effective tax rate was 37.3% for fiscal as compared to 37.8% for fiscal primarily due to the partial reversal of a valuation allowance resulting from realization of capital gains in the current fiscal year. Fiscal (52 weeks) Compared to Fiscal (52 weeks) Net Sales Net sales increased 7% to $7,271.0 million in fiscal 2015 from $6,814.5 million in fiscal 2014 due primarily to the growth of our store network, partially offset by a 0.2% decrease in consolidated same store sales. Noncomparable sales increased $468.0 million due to new stores, partially offset by an $11.5 million sales decrease caused by the 0.2% decrease in consolidated same store sales. The 0.2% decrease in consolidated same store sales consisted of a 0.1% increase at Dick's Sporting Goods and a 5.6% decrease at Golf Galaxy. eCommerce sales penetration was 10.3% of total net sales during the current period compared to 9.2% of total net sales during fiscal 2014, representing an approximate increase of 19% in eCommerce sales. The decrease in consolidated same store sales was primarily driven by a decrease within the softlines category, partially offset by increases within the hardlines and footwear categories. The decrease in softlines, which was most notably driven by sales declines in cold-weather related categories, was negatively impacted by record-setting warm weather across the majority of our markets during the back half of fiscal 2015. The same store sales increase at Dick's Sporting Goods was driven by an increase in sales per transaction of approximately 1.3% and a decrease in transactions of approximately 1.2%. Income from Operations Income from operations decreased $18.9 million to $535.2 million in fiscal 2015 from $554.1 million in fiscal 2014. Gross profit increased 5% to $2,182.9 million in fiscal 2015 from $2,086.7 million in fiscal 2014, but decreased as a percentage of net sales by 60 basis points compared to fiscal 2014. Fiscal 2014 included a $2.4 million write-down of inventory from our golf restructuring. Apart from the golf restructuring, gross profit decreased 63 basis points compared to fiscal 2014. The decline in the gross profit rate was driven by a decrease in merchandise margin of 25 basis points coupled with an increase in occupancy and shipping expenses during fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014. The decrease in merchandise margin was primarily driven by higher promotional activity. Occupancy costs increased $75.2 million from fiscal 2014. Our occupancy costs are generally fixed in nature and fluctuate based upon the number of stores that we operate. As a percentage of net sales, occupancy costs increased at a higher rate than the 7% increase in net sales during fiscal 2015. The increase in shipping expenses during fiscal 2015 resulted from the growth and increased penetration of eCommerce sales as compared to the Company's total net sales. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7% to $1,613.1 million in fiscal 2015 from $1,502.1 million in fiscal 2014, and increased as a percentage of net sales by 15 basis points. Fiscal 2015 includes a litigation settlement charge of $7.9 million. Fiscal 2014 included (i) a pre-tax gain on the sale of a corporate aircraft of $14.4 million, and (ii) asset impairment and severance charges from the Company's golf restructuring of $14.3 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Apart from the enumerated items, selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of net sales by nine basis points. This increase was primarily driven by higher advertising expenses and planned investments to support the Company's eCommerce initiatives, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense compared to fiscal 2014. Pre-opening expenses increased to $34.6 million in fiscal 2015 from $30.5 million in fiscal 2014. Pre-opening expenses in any period fluctuate depending on the timing and number of store openings and relocations. Pre-opening rent expenses for our self-developed store sites will generally exceed those for sites built to our specifications by our landlords as we commence recognition of rent expense when we take possession of a site. Income Taxes The Company's effective tax rate was 37.8% for fiscal 2015 as compared to 38.1% for fiscal 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview The Company's liquidity and capital needs have generally been met by cash from operating activities supplemented by borrowings from the Company's Credit Agreement as seasonally necessary. Cash flow from operations is seasonal in our business. The Company generally utilizes its Credit Agreement for working capital needs based primarily on the seasonal nature of its operating cash flows, with the Company's peak borrowings occurring during its third quarter as the Company increases inventory in advance of the holiday selling season. The Company has a $1 billion revolving senior secured credit facility, including up to $150 million in the form of letters of credit, in the event further liquidity is needed. Under the Credit Agreement, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, the Company may request an increase of up to $250 million in borrowing availability. The Credit Agreement is further described within Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity information for the fiscal periods ended (dollars in thousands): Funds drawn on Credit Agreement 2,159,600 1,338,100 Number of days with outstanding balance on Credit Agreement 199 days 127 days Maximum daily amount outstanding under Credit Agreement 506,900 494,000 The Company's more frequent use of its Credit Agreement in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 was primarily driven by continued capital return to stockholders as well as strategic acquisitions. Liquidity information as of the fiscal periods ended (dollars in thousands): Outstanding borrowings under Credit Agreement Cash and cash equivalents 164,777 118,936 Remaining borrowing capacity under Credit Agreement 978,687 985,969 Outstanding letters of credit under Credit Agreement 21,313 14,031 The Company intends to allocate capital to invest in its future growth, specifically growing its store network and eCommerce business together to deliver an omni-channel shopping experience, as well as to return capital to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases. Capital expenditures Fiscal 2016 capital expenditures totaled $242 million on a net basis, which includes tenant allowances provided by landlords, and $422 million on a gross basis. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $350 million on a net basis and approximately $465 million on a gross basis in fiscal 2017. Normal capital requirements primarily relate to the development of our omni-channel platform, including investments in new and existing stores and eCommerce technology. The Company also plans to invest in continuously improving its supply chain and corporate information technology infrastructure. We plan to open approximately 49 new stores and complete construction of our th distribution facility in fiscal 2017. We expect our new stores, as well as investments in our existing stores, to represent the majority of our total capital expenditures during fiscal 2017. The Company has a capital appropriations committee that approves all capital expenditures in excess of certain amounts, and groups and prioritizes all capital projects among required, discretionary and strategic categories. Share repurchases On March 7, 2013, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a five-year share repurchase program of up to $1 billion of the Company's common stock. Since the beginning of 2013, we have repurchased $958.6 million of common stock and have $41.4 million remaining under this authorization. On March 16, 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional five-year share repurchase program of up to $1 billion of the Company's common stock. During fiscal the Company repurchased 3.1 million shares of its common stock for $145.7 million During fiscal the Company repurchased 7.4 million shares of its common stock for $357.3 million. Any future share repurchase programs are subject to authorization by our Board of Directors, and will be dependent upon future earnings, cash flows, financial requirements and other factors. Dividends During the fiscal year ended the Company paid $68.0 million of dividends to its stockholders. The declaration of future dividends and the establishment of the per share amount, record dates and payment dates for any such future dividends are subject to authorization by our Board of Directors, and will be dependent upon future earnings, cash flows, financial requirements and other factors. The Company currently believes cash flows generated by operations and funds available under its Credit Agreement will be sufficient to satisfy capital requirements, including planned capital expenditures, share repurchases and quarterly dividend payments to its stockholders through fiscal The Company may require additional funding should the Company pursue strategic acquisitions or undertake share repurchases, other investments or store expansion rates in excess of those presently planned. Changes in cash and cash equivalents are as follows: Fiscal Year Ended Net cash provided by operating activities 758,983 643,514 605,978 Net cash used in investing activities (550,324 (372,434 (305,020 Net cash used in financing activities (162,865 (373,717 (260,913 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (106 (97 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 45,841 (102,743 39,948 Operating Activities Operating activities consist primarily of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Adjustments to net income for non-cash items include depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense and tax benefits on stock options, as well as non-cash gains and losses on the disposal of the Company's assets. Changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily reflect changes in inventories, accounts payable and income taxes payable receivable, as well as other working capital changes. Cash provided by operating activities increased $115.5 million in fiscal to $759.0 million The increase in cash provided by operating activities is due primarily to a $171.3 million increase in cash flows provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a $43.0 million decrease in net income and a $12.8 million decrease in non-cash items. The increase in operating assets and liabilities year-over-year is primarily due to the following: Cash flows provided by changes in inventory and accounts payable increased $77.3 million compared to fiscal primarily attributable to the timing of inventory receipts. Changes in accrued expenses increased operating cash flows by $59.3 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to year-over-year changes in incentive compensation accruals and corresponding payments. Changes in income taxes payable receivable for fiscal increased operating cash flows by $18.9 million compared to the same period in fiscal primarily due to the timing of tax payments. Tax payments are impacted year-over-year primarily by the timing of deductions from capital expenditures and the level of stock option exercises. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for fiscal increased by $177.9 million to $550.3 million from fiscal primarily due to current year acquisitions coupled with a $51.9 million increase in gross capital expenditures. During fiscal 2016, the Company acquired certain assets of TSA and Golfsmith as well as two sports management technology companies, Affinity Sports and GameChanger, for $118.8 million. The increase in gross capital expenditures was primarily driven by the Company's full-service footwear store initiative. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of the Company's capital return initiatives, including its share repurchase program and cash dividend payments, and cash flows generated from stock option exercises. Cash used in financing activities for fiscal totaled $162.9 million compared to $373.7 million in fiscal The Company repurchased $145.7 million of common stock during fiscal compared to $357.3 million during fiscal Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The Company is party to many contractual obligations that involve commitments to make payments to third parties in the ordinary course of business. The following table provides summary information concerning our future contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303(a)(5) of Regulation S-K) as of (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less than year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than years Contractual obligations: Capital lease obligations (see Note 7) 5,091 1,320 1,513 1,737 Other long-term debt Interest payments (see Note 7) 2,068 Operating lease obligations (see Note 8) 3,906,922 588,641 1,082,522 871,705 1,364,054 Unrecognized tax benefits 2,436 2,436 Purchase and other commitments (see Note 14) 216,389 59,684 124,953 16,863 14,889 Total contractual obligations 4,133,140 651,910 1,209,731 890,614 1,380,885 Amounts include direct lease obligations, excluding any taxes, insurance and other related expenses. Excludes $8,351 of accrued liability for unrecognized tax benefits as we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. These payments include interest and penalties. The Company's purchase obligations relate primarily to marketing commitments, including naming rights, licenses for trademarks, minimum requirements with its third-party eCommerce fulfillment provider, corporate aircraft, and technology-related and other ordinary course commitments. In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into many contractual commitments, including purchase orders and commitments for products or services, but generally, such commitments represent annual or cancellable commitments. The amount of purchase obligations shown is based on multi-year non-cancellable contracts outstanding at the end of fiscal The Note references in the table above are to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item herein. The following table summarizes the Company's other commercial commitments, including both on and off-balance sheet arrangements, in effect at (in thousands): Total Less than year Other commercial commitments: Documentary letters of credit Standby letters of credit 21,313 21,313 Total other commercial commitments 21,313 21,313 The Company expects to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Operating leases for our stores represent the majority of our contractual obligations. Future scheduled lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as of are described under the heading "Operating lease obligations" in the table above. Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note of the Consolidated Financial Statements, which were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Critical accounting policies are those that the Company believes are both most important to the portrayal of the Company's financial condition and results of operations, and require the Company's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. The Company considers the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Inventory Valuation The Company values inventory using the lower of weighted average cost or market method. Market price is generally based on the selling price expectations of the merchandise. The Company regularly reviews inventories to determine if the carrying value of the inventory exceeds market value and the Company records a reserve to reduce the carrying value to its market price, as necessary. Changes in customer merchandise preference, consumer spending, weather patterns, economic conditions, business trends or merchandising strategies could cause the Company's inventory to be exposed to obsolescence or slow moving merchandise. Shrink expense is accrued as a percentage of merchandise sales based on historical shrink trends. The Company performs physical inventories at its stores and distribution centers throughout the year. The reserve for shrink represents an estimate for shrink for each of the Company's locations since the last physical inventory date through the reporting date. Estimates by location and in the aggregate are impacted by internal and external factors and may vary significantly from actual results. Vendor Allowances Vendor allowances include allowances, rebates and cooperative advertising funds received from vendors. These funds are determined for each fiscal year and the majority are based on various quantitative contract terms. Amounts expected to be received from vendors for the purchase of merchandise inventories are treated as a reduction of inventory and reduce cost of goods sold as the merchandise is sold. Amounts that represent a reimbursement of costs incurred, such as advertising, are recorded as a reduction to the related expense in the period that the related expense is incurred. The Company records an estimate of earned allowances based on the latest projected purchase volumes and advertising forecasts. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill, indefinite-lived and other finite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value may have occurred. Our evaluation for impairment requires accounting judgments and financial estimates in determining the fair value of the reporting unit. If these judgments or estimates change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step impairment test. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company determines the fair value of its reporting units using a combination of a discounted cash flow and a market value approach. The Company's estimates may differ from actual results due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to its business models, or changes in operating performance. Significant differences between these estimates and actual results could result in future impairment charges and could materially affect the Company's future financial results. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired and the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the Company must perform the second step in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The activities in the second step include valuing the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of the impaired reporting unit based on their fair value and determining the fair value of the impaired reporting unit's goodwill based upon the residual of the aggregate identified tangible and intangible assets and liabilities. As of the Company had no reporting unit(s) at risk for goodwill impairment. Intangible assets that have been determined to have indefinite lives are also not subject to amortization and are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment, or more frequently as mentioned above. The fair value of the Company's intangible assets are estimated and compared to their carrying value. The Company estimates the fair value of these intangible assets based on an income approach using the relief-from-royalty method. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future sales growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates and other variables. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used in estimating fair value, the Company may be exposed to losses that could be material. The Company does not believe there is reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate fair value. The Company recognizes an impairment charge when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Closed Store Reserves The Company reviews long-lived assets whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows. Assets are reviewed at the lowest level for which cash flows can be identified, which is the store level. The Company uses an income approach to determine the fair value of individual store locations, which requires discounting projected future cash flows over its remaining lease term. When determining the stream of projected future cash flows associated with an individual store location, the Company makes assumptions, incorporating local market conditions, about key store variables including sales growth rates, gross margin and controllable expenses, such as store payroll. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the store location is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. Based on an analysis of current and future store performance, management periodically evaluates the need to close underperforming stores. Reserves are established for the present value of any remaining operating lease obligations, net of estimated sublease income, when the Company ceases to use the location. If the timing or amount of actual sublease income differs from estimated amounts, this could result in an increase or decrease in the related reserves. Self-Insurance The Company is self-insured for certain losses related to health, workers' compensation and general liability insurance, although we maintain stop-loss coverage with third party insurers to limit our liability exposure. Liabilities associated with these losses are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, industry factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with fair value recognition provisions, under which the Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires the input of assumptions. These assumptions include estimating the length of time employees will retain their vested stock options before exercising them ("expected term"), the estimated volatility of the Company's common stock price over the expected term and the expected dividend yield. In addition, we estimate the number of awards that will ultimately not complete their vesting requirements ("forfeitures") and recognize expense for those stock awards expected to vest. Changes in the assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of stock-based compensation and consequently, the related amount recognized on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Uncertain Tax Positions The Company only recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities. The application of income tax law is inherently complex. Laws and regulations in this area are voluminous and are often ambiguous. As such, we are required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our income tax exposures. Interpretations of and guidance surrounding income tax laws and regulations change over time. As such, changes in our assumptions and judgments can materially affect amounts recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Income.