General Dick's Sporting Goods, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, referred to as "the Company", "we", "us" and "our" unless specified otherwise) is a leading omni-channel sporting goods retailer offering an extensive assortment of authentic, high-quality sports equipment, apparel, footwear and accessories through a blend of dedicated associates, in-store services and unique specialty shop-in-shops. The Company also owns and operates Golf Galaxy, Field Stream and other specialty concept stores, and Dick's Team Sports HQ, an all-in-one youth sports digital platform offering free league management services, mobile apps for scheduling, communications and live scorekeeping, custom uniforms and FanWear and access to donations and sponsorships. The Company offers its products through a content-rich eCommerce platform that is integrated with its store network and provides customers with the convenience and expertise of a 24-hour storefront. When used in this Annual Report on unless the context otherwise requires or unless otherwise specified, any reference to "year" is to the Company's fiscal year. The Company was founded in 1948 when Richard "Dick" Stack, the father of Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, opened his original bait and tackle store in Binghamton, New York. Edward W. Stack joined his father's business full-time in 1977 and in 1984 became President and Chief Executive Officer of the then two-store chain. Our vision is to build leading brands that serve and inspire athletes and outdoor enthusiasts around the world to achieve their personal best; create value for our stockholders through the relentless improvement of everything we do; and make a lasting impact in our communities through sport. We were incorporated in 1948 in New York under the name Dick's Clothing and Sporting Goods, Inc. In November 1997, we reincorporated as a Delaware corporation and in April 1999 we changed our name to Dick's Sporting Goods, Inc. Our executive office is located at 345 Court Street, Coraopolis, Pennsylvania 15108 and our phone number is (724) 273-3400. Our website is located at www.DICKS.com. The information on our website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on We include on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual and Quarterly Reports filed on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Business Strategy The key elements of our business strategy are: Authentic Sporting Goods Retailer. Our history and core foundation is as a retailer of high-quality authentic athletic equipment, apparel and footwear, intended to enhance our customers' performance and enjoyment of athletic pursuits, rather than focusing our merchandise selection on the latest fashion trend or style. We believe our customers seek genuine, deep product offerings, and that ultimately this merchandising approach positions us with advantages in the market, which we believe will continue to benefit from new product offerings with enhanced technological features. Our objective is not only to carry leading brands, but to carry a full range of products within each category, including premium items for the sports enthusiast. We believe that the breadth of our product selections in each category of sporting goods offers our customers a wide range of good, better and best price points and enables us to address the needs of sporting goods consumers, from the beginner to the sports enthusiast, which distinguishes us from other large format sporting goods stores. We also believe that the range of merchandise and extensive in-store support services that we offer allows us to differentiate and compete effectively against all of our competitors, from traditional independent sporting goods stores and specialty shops to other large format sporting goods stores and mass merchant discount retailers to internet-based retailers. Capturing Displaced Market Share. The sporting goods industry experienced consolidation during 2016 as competitor bankruptcies left behind significant market share. The Company strategically acquired the best store locations, customer information and intellectual property for some of these competitors and believes it realized market share gains during 2016 as it leveraged these assets to capture these displaced customers. The Company remains focused on continuing to capture displaced market share in the future. Our store growth plans will focus on new and under-penetrated markets which were historically served by our former competitors. We will also continue to leverage the transaction details and target millions of new customers within the acquired customer information. Omni-channel Development. We believe when our customers connect with the Dick's Sporting Goods brand they expect a seamless shopping experience, regardless of the manner in which they choose to shop with us. We continue to see growth in the number of customers who shop with us both online and in our stores and believe these omni-channel customers represent the future of retail. Our customers may research products online, then visit a store to experience the merchandise and consult with one of our in-store experts, such as a bicycle mechanic or running specialist. Other customers may be inspired by one of our push notifications on their mobile device, visit our store to test the merchandise by utilizing such features as the golf hitting bay, archery lane or trying a pair of running shoes on the treadmill and complete the purchase in the store or later on their tablet device. We believe that leveraging all of our sales channels to deliver a consistent, seamless and high-quality customer experience across our store, on the web and via mobile technology, will differentiate us from our online-only competitors. On January 29, 2017, we transitioned our eCommerce platform from a third-party provider to a proprietary internal platform that now allows us to fully control our customer experience and maximize profitability, while continuing store growth. The Company's focus will be to refine platform functionality, improve customer-facing features, and leverage customer and transaction data to optimize its customer relationship management efforts and to deliver more targeted digital marketing. Like our customers, we see retail as an omni-experience, where the distinctions between stores and online are increasingly irrelevant. We believe our store base is a competitive advantage to our online-only competitors, as our physical presence allows us to better serve our customers, whether through the convenience of accepting in-store returns or exchanges, or expediting fulfillment of eCommerce orders. We believe that offering support services for the products we sell enhances the credibility of our associates and specialty store concepts with our customers and further differentiates our stores from our competitors. Within specialty retail, we opened nine Field Stream stores during fiscal 2016, eight of which were in the combo store format. In some markets, we operate Dick's Sporting Goods stores adjacent to our specialty concept stores on the same property with a pass-through for customers. We refer to this format as a "combo store". In fiscal 2017, we plan to open eight additional Field Stream stores, all in the combo store format. These highly specialized concept stores enable us to connect with the outdoor enthusiast in their own element, giving us valuable insight into key merchandise categories that we can apply across our entire network. Drive Digital Growth. The Company plans to invest in digital in many forms, including our eCommerce platform, online assortments, customer relationship management and digital marketing, and Dick's Team Sports HQ, just as we make investments in our stores to keep them fresh and in the best locations. Our marketing program is designed to build loyalty for the Dick's Sporting Goods brand while promoting our broad assortment of brand name sporting goods equipment, apparel and footwear in a specialty store environment. While we continue to market our merchandise assortment through traditional channels, such as newspaper and direct mail pieces, we have developed brand-building marketing campaigns focused on building passion and loyalty to the Dick's Sporting Goods brand and shifted our advertising mix to include more digital marketing. The Company is also actively involved in communities, sponsoring thousands of teams in various sports at the local level. The Dick's Team Sports HQ business, which is comprised of our Blue Sombrero, Affinity Sports and GameChanger acquisitions, is focused on creating a holistic digital eco-system to support and equip youth sports and establish relationships with millions of players. We plan to use Dick's Team Sports HQ to stay top-of-mind for athletes and their families, and to create a powerful dataset that we will use to develop offers that are tailored and timed to meet the needs of these athletes. We also plan to continue to optimize our media mix by shifting to more efficient and effective marketing channels and by leveraging our extensive and expanding customer relationship marketing database from our "ScoreCard" loyalty program. Brand Partnerships. We carry a wide variety of well-known brands, including adidas, Asics, Callaway Golf, Columbia, Nike, Remington, TaylorMade-adidas Golf, The North Face, Under Armour and Yeti. In addition to the cost efficiencies of shared investments with our brand partners, we seek to leverage our partnerships to offer authenticity and credibility to our customers, while differentiating ourselves from our competitors. We partner with our brands on important marketing initiatives and product launches, in addition to leveraging athletes that these brands bring to us for our marketing campaigns. Our brand partnerships also provide us with access to exclusive products and allow us to differentiate our customers' shopping experience through initiatives such as our brand shops, which provide our customers with a wider and deeper selection of products from our key brands. Private Brands. To provide differentiation in assortment when compared to our competitors, we offer a wide variety of private brand products that are not available from other retailers. Our exclusive private brand offerings include brands that we own such as CALIA, DBX, Field Stream, Fitness Gear, Lady Hagen, MAXFLI, Nishiki, Primed, Quest, Top-Flite and Walter Hagen, as well as brands that we exclusively license from third parties including adidas baseball, Reebok (performance apparel), Slazenger (golf and racquets) and Umbro (performance soccer equipment, footwear and apparel). Our private brands offer exceptional value and quality to our customers, while also providing the Company with higher gross margins than we obtain on sales of comparable third-party branded products. We consider our overall private brand strategy to be a key area of opportunity to increase productivity in our stores and on-line, and have invested in a development and procurement staff to support our private brand business. In fiscal 2016, we expanded our private brand business and continued to focus on our CALIA line of women's athletic apparel. Looking forward, we intend to expand product offerings within the CALIA line as well as introduce multiple new private brands during fiscal 2017. The Company anticipates the private brand business exceeding $1 billion in sales during fiscal 2017. Private brand sales represented approximately 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales during fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014. Merchandising The following table sets forth the approximate percentage of our sales attributable to the hardlines, apparel and footwear categories for the periods presented: Fiscal Year Category Hardlines Apparel Footwear Other Total Includes items such as sporting goods equipment, fitness equipment, golf equipment and hunting and fishing gear. Includes the Company's non-merchandise sales categories, including in-store services and shipping revenues. Segment information is further described within Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling Channels We offer products to our customers through our retail stores and online. Although we sell through both of these channels, we believe that sales in one channel are not independent of the other. Regardless of the sales channel, we seek to provide our customers with a seamless omni-channel shopping experience. Retail Stores: Store Format. Each of our Dick's Sporting Goods stores unites several sports specialty stores under one roof and typically contains the following specialty shops: Footwear, Team Sports, Outdoor Lodge, Golf, Fitness and Athletic Apparel. We believe our "store-within-a-store" concept creates a unique shopping environment by combining the convenience, broad assortment and competitive prices of large format stores with the brand names, deep product selection and customer service of a specialty store. Our Golf Galaxy and Field Stream stores are designed to create an exciting and interactive shopping environment for the sporting enthusiast that highlights our extensive product assortments and value-added services. The Company seeks to expand its presence through the opening of new stores and the Company believes that growing its store network and eCommerce business simultaneously, will enable it to profitably grow the business by delivering an omni-channel shopping experience for its customers. The rate of future store growth may be reduced compared to historical levels as the Company monitors the competitive landscape and focuses its store growth in under-served and under-penetrated markets. eCommerce: Through our websites, we seek to provide our customers with in-depth product knowledge and the ability to shop with us at any time. We continue to develop our online content and capabilities to enhance the online experience and fully integrate our online business with our stores to provide our customers with an omni-channel shopping experience. Currently, we have return-to-store capabilities for online orders and the ability to place online orders in our stores if we are out of stock in the retail store. We also have the ability through our websites to ship orders placed online from our retail locations, which reduces delivery times for online orders and improves inventory productivity. We also have capability for our customers to buy merchandise online and pick it up in store. In fiscal our eCommerce business accounted for approximately 12% of our total net sales. Purchasing, Distribution and Customer Fulfillment We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,400 vendors. During fiscal Nike and Under Armour our largest vendors, represented approximately 20% and 12% respectively, of our merchandise purchases. No other vendor represented 10% or more of our fiscal merchandise purchases. We do not have long-term purchase contracts with any of our vendors and all of our purchases from vendors are made on a short-term purchase order basis. We currently operate four regional distribution centers for supplying stores with merchandise and are constructing a new 650,000 square foot distribution center in Conklin, NY that we expect to be operational by the end of fiscal 2017. Vendors directly ship floor ready merchandise to our distribution centers, where it is processed and allocated directly to our stores or to temporary storage at our distribution centers. Our distribution centers are responsible for consolidating damaged or defective merchandise from our stores that is being returned to vendors. We have contracted with common carriers to deliver merchandise from all of our distribution centers to our stores. During fiscal our stores received approximately 95% of merchandise through our distribution network with the remaining merchandise shipped directly to the stores from our vendors. We believe this flow of merchandise facilitates prompt and efficient distribution to our stores in order to enhance in-stocks, minimize freight costs and improve our inventory turns. The Company leverages various fulfillment channels to ensure merchandise delivery speed to its customers and to minimize shipping costs. The Company leverages its store network, a third-party operated fulfillment center as well as its vendors to ship merchandise to its customers. Competition The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. We compete with many retailing formats, including large format sporting goods stores, traditional sporting goods stores, specialty and vendor stores, mass merchants and department stores, internet and catalog-based retailers, and vendors selling directly to consumers. We seek to attract customers by offering a wide range of products and broad selection and distinctive marketing in stores that provide a unique shopping environment and superior service through an omni-channel experience. Employees As of we employed approximately 14,600 full-time and 25,900 part-time associates. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, total employment figures fluctuate throughout the year and typically peak during the fourth quarter. None of our associates are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our associates are good. Seasonality Seasonality of the Company's business is discussed in further detail within Item 1A. "Risk Factors". Proprietary Rights The Company has a number of registered service marks and trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, including various versions of the following: "Acuity", "CALIA", "DBX", "Dick's", "Dick's Sporting Goods", "Ethos", "Field Stream", "Fitness Gear", "Golf Galaxy", "Golfsmith", "Lady Hagen", "MAXFLI", "Nishiki", "Primed", "Quest", "Second Skin", "ScoreCard", "ScoreCard Rewards", "Top-Flite", "The Sports Authority" and "Walter Hagen". The Company also has a number of registered domain names, including "dickssportinggoods.com", "DICKS.com", "golfgalaxy.com", "fieldandstreamshop.com" and "caliastudio.com". Our service marks, trademarks and other intellectual property are subject to risks and uncertainties that are discussed within Item 1A. "Risk Factors". We have entered into licensing agreements for names that we do not own, which provide for exclusive rights to use names such as "adidas" (baseball and football), "Cobra" (youth golf), "Slazenger" (golf and racquets), "Louisville Slugger" (hosiery only), "Reebok" (performance apparel) and "Umbro" (performance soccer equipment, footwear and apparel) for specified product categories and, in some cases, specified sales channels. These licenses contemplate long-term business relationships, with substantial initial terms and the opportunity for multi-year extensions. These licenses contain customary termination provisions at the option of the licensor including, in some cases, termination upon our failure to purchase or sell a minimum volume of products and may include early termination fees. Our licenses are also subject to risks and uncertainties common to licensing arrangements that are described within Item 1A. "Risk Factors". Governmental Regulations We must comply with various federal, state and local regulations, including regulations relating to consumer products and consumer protection, advertising and marketing, labor and employment, data protection and privacy, intellectual property, the environment and tax. In addition, in connection with the sale of firearms in our stores, we must comply with a number of federal and state laws and regulations related to the sale of firearms and ammunition, including the federal Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act. Ensuring our compliance with these various laws and regulations, and keeping abreast of changes to the legal and regulatory landscape, requires us to expend considerable resources. Executive Officers of the Company The following table and accompanying narrative sets forth the name, age and business experience of the current Executive Officers of the Company: Name Age Position Edward W. Stack Chairman and Chief Executive Officer André J. Hawaux Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer Lee J. Belitsky Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer Lauren R. Hobart Executive Vice President Chief Marketing Officer Michele B. Willoughby Executive Vice President eCommerce and Supply Chain John E. Hayes III Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary Holly R. Tyson Senior Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer Edward W. Stack has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1984 when our founder and Mr. Stack's father, Richard "Dick" Stack, retired from our then two-store chain. Mr. Stack has served us full-time since 1977 in a variety of positions, including President, Store Manager and Merchandise Manager. André J. Hawaux became our Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer in August 2015 and also served as our interim principal financial officer from August 2016 to September 2016. From February 2015 to August 2015, Mr. Hawaux served as our Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer. From June 2013 to January 2015, Mr. Hawaux served as our Executive Vice President Finance, Administration and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Hawaux served as the President, Consumer Foods at ConAgra Foods, Inc., one of North America's leading packaged food companies, since 2009. From 2006 to 2009, Mr. Hawaux served as ConAgra Foods' Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer where he was responsible for the company's Finance and Information System and Services organizations. Prior to ConAgra Foods, Mr. Hawaux served as general manager of a large U.S. division of PepsiAmericas and previously served as Chief Financial Officer for Pepsi-Cola North America and Pepsi International's China business unit. Mr. Hawaux is also a Trustee of Southern New Hampshire University and a member of the Board of Directors of PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM). Lee J. Belitsky became our Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer in September 2016. Mr. Belitsky joined Dick's Sporting Goods in 1997 as Vice President Controller and has held a number of roles at Dick's Sporting Goods. From September 2014 to September 2016, Mr. Belitsky served as Executive Vice President Product Development and Planning, Allocations and Replenishment; from July 2013 to September 2014, Mr. Belitsky served as Senior Vice President Product Development; from September 2011 to July 2013, he served as Senior Vice President Chief Risk and Compliance Officer; from January 2010 to September 2011, he served as Senior Vice President Strategic Planning and Analysis and Treasury Services; from February 2009 to January 2010, he served as Senior Vice President Store Operations and Distribution Transportation; from April 2006 to February 2009, he served as Senior Vice President Distribution and Transportation; from December 2005 to April 2006, he served as Vice President Treasurer; and from December 1997 to December 2005, he served as Vice President Controller. Prior to joining Dick's Sporting Goods, Mr. Belitsky was the Chief Financial Officer of Domain, Inc., a Boston-based home furnishings retailer. He also served as Vice President Controller and Treasurer with Morse Shoe, Inc. and as an Audit Manager with KPMG LLP. Lauren R. Hobart will serve as our Executive Vice President Chief Customer Digital Officer effective April 2017. Ms. Hobart joined Dick's Sporting Goods in February 2011 as our Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. In September 2015, Ms. Hobart was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining Dick's Sporting Goods, Ms. Hobart spent 14 years with PepsiCo, Inc., most recently serving as Chief Marketing Officer for its carbonated soft drink portfolio in the United States. During her career at PepsiCo, Ms. Hobart held several other significant marketing roles and also spent several years in strategic planning. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Hobart worked in commercial banking for JP Morgan Chase and Wells Fargo Bank. Ms. Hobart also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Sonic Corp. (Nasdaq: SONC). Michele B. Willoughby will serve as our Executive Vice President Chief Strategy Officer effective April 2017. Ms. Willoughby joined Dick's Sporting Goods in 2004 as our Vice President, Planning and Allocation. In July 2013, Ms. Willoughby was promoted to Executive Vice President eCommerce and Supply Chain. From November 2010 to July 2013, Ms. Willoughby served as Senior Vice President eCommerce and from February 2009 to November 2010, she served as Senior Vice President Supply Chain. Prior to joining Dick's Sporting Goods, Ms. Willoughby was employed by Kohl's Department Stores, where she held various positions in Merchandise Planning and Allocation from 1997 to 2004, most recently as Vice President, Planning and Allocation. John E. Hayes III became our Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary in January 2015. Prior to joining Dick's Sporting Goods, Mr. Hayes served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Coldwater Creek Inc. from February 2009 to September 2014. During his tenure with Coldwater Creek, Mr. Hayes also served as the Company's interim Chief Financial Officer from November 2009 to April 2010 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from April 2010 to May 2013. Prior to joining Coldwater Creek, Mr. Hayes was engaged for seventeen years in private law practice, most recently as a partner with Hogan Hartson, LLP, from March 2003 to February 2009. Prior to his legal career, Mr. Hayes practiced as an accountant with KPMG LLP. Holly R. Tyson joined Dick's Sporting Goods as the Chief Human Resources Officer in August 2016. Prior to joining Dick's Sporting Goods, Ms. Tyson served as the Chief Human Resources Officer at The Brink's Company from January 2012 to August 2016. Prior to joining The Brink's Company, Ms. Tyson was Vice President Human Resources U.S. Pharmaceuticals at Bristol-Myers Squibb from January 2010 to January 2012. During her tenure there, Ms. Tyson also served as Executive Director Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Talent and U.S. Pharmaceuticals Sales Learning, Director Human Resources U.S. Pharmaceuticals Sales Learning, Director Human Resources Cardiovascular Metabolics and Director Leadership and Change from 2004 to 2010. Prior to her joining Bristol-Myers Squibb, Ms. Tyson held various human resources and organizational development leadership roles at Alliance Consulting, Cigna Corporation and Accenture from 1994 to 2004.