Risks and Uncertainties Our business is dependent on consumer discretionary spending and reductions in consumer spending might adversely affect the Company's business, operations, liquidity, financial results and stock price. Our business depends on consumer discretionary spending, and as a result, our results are highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. Consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the Company's control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. Decreases in consumer discretionary spending can result in the need for more promotional activities and a decrease in same store sales, customer traffic or average value per transaction, which could negatively affect the Company's business, financial performance and/or stock price, particularly if consumer spending is depressed for a prolonged period of time. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry and in retail could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies, some of which have greater market presence, name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Additionally, the ability of consumers to compare prices on a real-time basis through the use of smartphones and digital technology puts additional pressure on us to maintain competitive prices vis-à-vis our competitors. We compete with retailers from multiple categories and in multiple channels, including large formats; traditional and specialty formats; mass merchants; department stores and catalog; internet-based and direct-sell retailers; and vendors that sell directly to customers. Many factors affect the extent to which competition could affect our results, including pricing, quality, assortment, advertising, service, locations and reputation, and prolonged competitive pressures could have a material effect on our results of operations. Omni-channel growth in our business is complex and we have recently implemented an internal eCommerce platform. Our business has become increasingly omni-channel as we strive to deliver a seamless shopping experience to our customers through both online and in-store shopping experiences. On January 29, 2017, we launched an internal eCommerce platform that allows us to control our customer experience without relying on a third-party provider. Maintaining and developing our internal eCommerce platform involves substantial investment of capital and resources, integrating a number of information and management systems from different vendors, increasing supply chain and distribution capabilities, attracting, developing and retaining qualified personnel with relevant subject matter expertise, and effectively managing the customer experience. This involves substantial risk, including risk of cost overruns, technology interruptions, supply and distribution delays, and other issues that can affect the successful operation of our internal eCommerce platform. If we are not able to successfully operate our internal eCommerce platform, our reputation, operations, financial results, and future growth could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to predict or effectively react to changes in consumer demand or shopping patterns, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand, preferences and shopping patterns regarding sporting goods. We must develop and execute merchandising initiatives with marketing programs that appeal to a broad range of consumers and markets throughout the country. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to continual change and evolution. Additionally, our customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through eCommerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels or media (through internet-based and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media), which may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. We often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors several months in advance of the proposed delivery. Furthermore, the Company also is implementing a new merchandising and vendor strategy to better serve its customers. The Company will leverage its relationships with strategic vendors to drive growth through exclusive and differentiated products. These initiatives might require considerable attention from our management teams and other company specialists in order to implement and maintain, and we may not recognize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives within the expected time-frame or at all. Our sales may decline significantly if we misjudge the market for our new merchandise, which may result in significant inventory markdowns, missed opportunities for other products, or inventory write-downs, and could have a negative impact on our reputation and profitability. Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising real estate prices and other costs and risks relating to a brick and mortar retail store model could affect our results. Opening stores in new and existing markets is a critical part of our business strategy. Our plans to increase our number of retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. Furthermore, even if suitable properties are identified, if we fail to negotiate appropriate terms for new leases we enter into, we may incur lease costs that are excessive and cause operating margins to be below acceptable levels. We may also make term commitments that are too long or too short, without the option to exit early or extend. Factors such as the condition of local property markets, availability of lease financing, taxes, zoning and environmental issues, and competitive actions may impact the availability of, and our ability to successfully negotiate leases, for suitable property. Furthermore, the success of new stores depends on a number of factors, including the success of the shopping center where our store is located, consumer demographics and consumer shopping patterns. These factors cannot be predicted with complete accuracy. If we fail to profitably operate these new stores once they open, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm the Company's business and standing with our customers. The protection of our customer, associate and Company data is critical to us. The Company receives confidential customer data, including payment card and personally identifiable information, in the normal course of customer transactions. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, the intentional or negligent actions of employees, business associates or third parties may undermine our security measures. As a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate confidential data. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. While we have no knowledge of material data security breach to date, any compromise of our data security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws or standards, significant legal and financial exposure beyond the scope or limits of insurance coverage, interruption of our operations, increased operating costs associated with remediation, equipment acquisitions or disposal and added personnel, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business or investor confidence. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of litigation and material liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. Our private brand offerings and new retail concepts expose us to increased costs and certain additional risks. We offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. We expect to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings through a combination of brands that we own and brands that we exclusively license from third parties. We also evaluate and operate new retail concepts, including, for example, our Field Stream and Golf Galaxy concepts. We invest in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts relating to these private brand offerings and new retail concepts. There is no assurance that our private brand products or our new retail concepts will be successful, and we could curtail or abandon any of our private brands or retail concepts at any time. Factors that could cause us to curtail or abandon one of our private brands or retail concepts include unexpected or increased costs or delays in development of the brand, demands on management resources, legal or regulatory constraints, change in consumer demands, preferences and shopping patterns regarding sporting goods, or a determination that the demand does not support the brand. Additional risks relating to private brand offerings include product liability and product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights (e.g., defending against counterfeit or otherwise unauthorized goods); our ability to successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; and our ability to successfully administer and comply with obligations under license agreements that we have with the licensors of brands. Our ability to operate and expand our business and to respond to changing business and economic conditions will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility impose certain restrictions that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital. The operation and growth of our business, including opening new stores and expanding our eCommerce business, and our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends on cash flow generated by our business and, if necessary, the availability of equity or debt capital. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales, which might otherwise be used to finance our operations. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, and if availability under our current senior secured revolving credit facility is not sufficient, we may have to obtain additional financing. We cannot provide assurance that we could obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. Our liquidity or access to capital could also be adversely affected by unforeseen changes in the financial markets and global economy. We are subject to costs and risks associated with a complex regulatory, compliance and legal environment, including increased or changing laws and regulations affecting our business, particularly those relating to the sale of consumer products and firearms and ammunition, and those relating to data protection and privacy. We operate in a complex regulatory and legal environment that exposes us to compliance and litigation risks that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political, economic or social events. Some of the federal, state or local laws and regulations that affect us include those relating to consumer products, product liability or consumer protection; eCommerce, data protection and privacy; advertisement and marketing; labor and employment; taxes, including tax rates and new taxes and surcharges; firearms, ammunition, knives, food items or other regulated products; accounting, corporate governance and securities; custom or import; and intellectual property. In addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations such as those outlined above may result in our being subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our suppliers, distributors and manufacturers to provide us with sufficient quantities of quality products in a timely fashion. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,400 vendors. In fiscal 2016, purchases from Nike and Under Armour represented approximately 20% and 12%, respectively, of our merchandise purchases. Although in fiscal 2016 purchases from no other vendor represented 10% or more of our total purchases, our dependence on our principal suppliers involves risk. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our major suppliers that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise. If any of our key vendors fails to supply us with sufficient products that comply with our safety and quality standards, whether as a result of supply chain disruptions or other causes, or continue to develop new products that create consumer demand, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our revenue could materially decline. Moreover, many of our suppliers provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce or eliminate our profit margins. We may be subject to various types of litigation and other claims, and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims. From time to time the Company or its subsidiaries may be involved in lawsuits or other claims arising in the ordinary course of business, including those related to federal or state wage and hour laws, product liability, consumer protection, advertising, employment, intellectual property, tort, privacy or data protection and other matters. We sell hunting rifles, semi-automatic hunting rifles and ammunition, and in some of our stores, including Field Stream stores, handguns. These are products that are associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits with respect to our compliance with Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ("ATF") or state laws or regulations. Any improper or illegal use by our customers of ammunition or firearms sold by us could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. We may incur losses due to lawsuits, including potential class actions, relating to our performance of background checks on firearms purchases and compliance with other sales laws as mandated by state and federal law. We may also incur losses from lawsuits relating to the improper use of firearms or ammunition sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from manufacturers and retailers of firearms and ammunition. We may incur losses relating to claims filed against us, including costs associated with defending against such claims, and there is risk that any such claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage, or affect our ability to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Even if a claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any such assertions could adversely affect our reputation with our customers. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and other claims, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such matters. If our product costs are adversely affected by foreign trade issues, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increasing prices for raw materials, political instability or other reasons, our sales and profitability may suffer. A significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, as well as most of our private brand merchandise, is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to risk relating to changes in import duties, quotas, the introduction of U.S. taxes on imported goods or the extension of U.S. income taxes on our foreign suppliers' sales of imported goods through the adoption of destination-based income tax jurisdiction, loss of "most favored nation" status with the U.S., shipment delays and shipping port constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions, freight cost increases and economic uncertainties. Furthermore, we could face significantly higher U.S. income and similar taxes with respect to sales of products purchased from foreign suppliers if the U.S. were to adopt a system of taxation, such as a border adjustment tax, under which the cost of imported products was not deductible in determining the tax base. If such a tax system were adopted, we could also face higher prices for products manufactured or produced abroad that we purchase from our domestic suppliers if they were subject to such a tax. In addition, the U.S. government periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained by our vendors and us. If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which our vendors' supplies or our private brand products' manufacturers are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturers from whom we directly or indirectly purchase products utilize labor, environmental, worker safety and other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the U.S., we could be hurt by any resulting negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability. Also, the prices charged by foreign manufacturers may be affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the U.S. dollar and the price of raw materials, which could cause the cost of our products to increase and negatively impact our sales or profitability. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or any claimed infringement by us of third party intellectual rights, could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property, including exclusive licensing rights, are valuable assets that are critical to our success. Effective trademark and other intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products are manufactured or may be made available. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue. In addition, any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us could be time-consuming to address, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or result in our loss of ownership or use of the intellectual property. Problems with our information system software could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. We utilize a number of third party information systems for core system needs of our business. These systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt our operations, including our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell, process shipments of goods, process financial information or credit card transactions, deliver products or engage in similar normal business activities. Any material disruption, malfunction or other similar problems in or with our core information systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. We may be unable to attract, train, engage and retain key personnel and associates. Furthermore, the loss of Edward W. Stack as our key executive could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we do not continue to effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop key personnel and qualified employees in all areas of the organization, our business may suffer. In addition, stores depend significantly on our ability to hire and retain quality associates, including store managers and sales associates. The market for non-entry level personnel, particularly for associates with retail expertise, is highly competitive. We also are dependent on the associates who staff our distribution centers, many of whom are skilled. Furthermore, our success depends on continued service from Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has been operating the Company since 1984. Mr. Stack possesses detailed and in-depth knowledge of the issues, opportunities and challenges facing the Company and the industry. If we were to lose Mr. Stack, our business could be materially adversely affected. Wage increases could adversely affect our financial results. Recently, various legislative movements have sought to increase the federal minimum wage in the United States, as well as the minimum wage in a number of individual states. As federal or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to our other hourly employees as well. Further, should we fail to increase our wages competitively in response to increasing wage rates, the quality of our workforce could decline, causing our customer service to suffer. Additionally, while the U.S. Department of Labor's Final Overtime Rule ("Final Rule") has been enjoined, the Final Rule, if we are required to comply, may impact the compensation paid to employees currently classified as "exempt," resulting in a substantial increase in store payroll expense. Any increase in the cost of our labor could have an adverse effect on our operating costs, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our distribution centers and store support center, and a natural disaster or other serious disruption at one or more of these facilities could cause us to lose merchandise, be unable to effectively deliver merchandise to our stores, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate a 914,000 square foot distribution center near Atlanta, Georgia, a 725,000 square foot distribution center in Plainfield, Indiana, a 601,000 square foot distribution center in Smithton, Pennsylvania, a 624,000 square foot distribution center in Goodyear, Arizona, and a 670,000 square foot store support center in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania that serves as our corporate headquarters, and we plan to construct a 650,000 square foot distribution center in Conklin, New York by the end of fiscal 2017. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to one of these facilities due to fire, tornado or any other cause could damage a material portion of our inventory, impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors, and negatively affect our operations, sales, and profitability. Poor performance of professional sports teams within our core regions of operation, as well as professional team lockouts or strikes, retirement of sports superstars or scandals involving sports superstars could adversely affect our financial results. We sell a significant amount of professional sports team merchandise, the sale of which may be subject to fluctuations based on the success or failure of such teams. The poor performance by the professional sports teams within our core regions of operations, as well as professional team lockouts and strikes, could cause our financial results to fluctuate accordingly year over year. In addition, to the extent we use sports superstars to market our products and advertise our stores, or we sell merchandise branded by one or more sports superstars, the retirement of such individuals or scandals in which they may be implicated could negatively impact our financial results. The relative seasonality of our operations, along with the current geographic concentrations of our Dick's stores, exposes us to certain risks. Our business is largely seasonal based on sports seasons and the holiday selling season. Furthermore, a majority of our Dick's Sporting Goods stores are located in the eastern half of the United States, which exposes us to various regional risks, including those relating to weather conditions. Many of our stores are located in geographic areas that experience seasonably cold weather, and we sell a significant amount of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Our highest sales and operating income results historically occur during our fourth fiscal quarter, which is due, in part, to the holiday selling season and, in part, to our strong sales of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Poor performance during our fourth quarter, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. Additionally, abnormally wet or cold weather in the spring or summer months could reduce our sales of golf, team sports or other merchandise and cause a decrease in our profitability. We may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions or investments and the failure of an alliance, acquisition or investment to produce the anticipated results or the inability to fully integrate the acquired companies could have an adverse impact on our business. We may from time to time acquire or invest in complementary companies or businesses. The success of such acquisitions or investments is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, operations, growth potential, integration and other factors relating to the respective business. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions or investments will produce the results that we expect at the time we enter into or we complete the transaction. Furthermore, acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or write-offs of goodwill or other intangibles, any of which could harm our financial condition. We also may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, supply chain and other operations, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions may also result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. We are controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and his relatives, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. As of January 28, 2017, Mr. Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his relatives controlled a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and Class common stock and would control the outcome of a vote on any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval. The interests of Mr. Stack and his relatives may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and they may take actions with which our other stockholders disagree. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: authorizing the issuance of Class common stock; classifying the Board of Directors such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors; if our Class common stock is no longer outstanding, prohibiting stockholder action by partial written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders or by unanimous written consent; and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who owns 15% or more of our common stock. We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Although our Board of Directors has indicated an intention to pay future quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and the continuing determination from our Board of Directors that the declaration of dividends is in the best interests of our stockholders and is in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the dividend. Furthermore, although we have authorized a five-year $1 billion share repurchase program, we are not obligated to make any purchases under the program and we may discontinue it at any time.